apps/ayokoding-web/content/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/kotlin/_index.md, before:

---
title: Kotlin
date: 2025-12-18T00:00:00+07:00
draft: false
description: Complete learning path from zero to expert Kotlin development - organized using the Diátaxis framework
weight: 13000
type: docs
layout: list
---

- [Overview](overview)
- [Tutorials](tutorials)
  - [Tutorial Overview](tutorials/overview)
  - [Initial Setup](tutorials/initial-setup)
  - [Quick Start](tutorials/quick-start)
  - [Complete Beginner's Guide to Kotlin](tutorials/beginner)
  - [Intermediate Kotlin](tutorials/intermediate)
  - [Advanced Kotlin](tutorials/advanced)
- [How-To Guides](how-to)
  - [Overview](how-to/overview)
  - [Cookbook](how-to/cookbook)
  - [How to Work with Nullable Types](how-to/working-with-nullable-types)
  - [How to Handle Null with Elvis and Safe Call](how-to/avoid-null-pointer-errors)
  - [How to Implement Error Handling Patterns](how-to/error-handling-patterns)
  - [How to Use Smart Casts](how-to/using-smart-casts)
  - [How to Use Data Classes Effectively](how-to/use-data-classes-effectively)
  - [How to Work with Collections Idiomatically](how-to/work-with-collections)
  - [How to Work with Scope Functions](how-to/work-with-scope-functions)
  - [How to Use Extension Functions](how-to/extension-functions)
  - [How to Use Sealed Classes and Interfaces](how-to/use-sealed-classes)
  - [How to Use Property Delegates](how-to/use-delegates)
  - [How to Use Inline Functions](how-to/use-inline-functions-reified)
  - [How to Work with Coroutines Basics](how-to/handle-coroutines-and-async)
  - [How to Use Flow and State Management](how-to/flow-state-management)
  - [How to Organize Code with Packages and Modules](how-to/organize-code-packages)
  - [How to Handle Java Interoperability](how-to/integrate-with-java)
  - [How to Migrate Java Code to Kotlin](how-to/migrate-from-java)
  - [How to Access Databases with Exposed](how-to/database-access-exposed)
  - [How to Build REST APIs with Ktor](how-to/build-rest-apis-ktor)
  - [How to Set Up Gradle with Kotlin DSL](how-to/manage-dependencies-gradle)
  - [How to Test with JUnit and MockK](how-to/write-effective-tests)
  - [How to Optimize Kotlin Performance](how-to/optimize-performance)
- [Reference](reference)
  - [Reference Overview](reference/overview)
  - [Kotlin Cheat Sheet](reference/cheat-sheet)
  - [Kotlin Glossary](reference/glossary)
  - [Kotlin Resources](reference/resources)
- [Explanation](explanation)
  - [Explanation Overview](explanation/overview)
  - [Kotlin Best Practices and Design Principles](explanation/best-practices)
  - [Common Kotlin Anti-Patterns](explanation/anti-patterns)

Commit message:

feat(ayokoding): add 2 Kotlin how-to guides and expand cookbook to 5,023 lines
Add advanced Kotlin how-to guides:
- Advanced coroutine patterns (StateFlow, SharedFlow, structured concurrency, testing)
- Multiplatform development (expect/actual, Ktor client, platform-specific APIs)

Expand cookbook from 2,669 to 5,023 lines (+2,361 lines, comprehensive expansion).
Remove forbidden tags field from cookbook frontmatter per Hugo conventions.
Add Mermaid color palette comments to both new guides for accessibility.
Fix relative paths to absolute paths with language prefix in Related Patterns sections.

All guides follow mandatory how-to pattern and comply with Hugo conventions.

Kotlin content now meets exceptional standard: 23 guides (21 → 23), 5,023-line cookbook.

apps/ayokoding-web/content/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/kotlin/_index.md, after:

---
title: Kotlin
date: 2025-12-18T00:00:00+07:00
draft: false
description: Complete learning path from zero to expert Kotlin development - organized using the Diátaxis framework
weight: 13000
type: docs
layout: list
---

- [Overview](overview)
- [Tutorials](tutorials)
  - [Tutorial Overview](tutorials/overview)
  - [Initial Setup](tutorials/initial-setup)
  - [Quick Start](tutorials/quick-start)
  - [Complete Beginner's Guide to Kotlin](tutorials/beginner)
  - [Intermediate Kotlin](tutorials/intermediate)
  - [Advanced Kotlin](tutorials/advanced)
- [How-To Guides](how-to)
  - [Overview](how-to/overview)
  - [Cookbook](how-to/cookbook)
  - [How to Work with Nullable Types](how-to/working-with-nullable-types)
  - [How to Handle Null with Elvis and Safe Call](how-to/avoid-null-pointer-errors)
  - [How to Implement Error Handling Patterns](how-to/error-handling-patterns)
  - [How to Use Smart Casts](how-to/using-smart-casts)
  - [How to Use Data Classes Effectively](how-to/use-data-classes-effectively)
  - [How to Work with Collections Idiomatically](how-to/work-with-collections)
  - [How to Work with Scope Functions](how-to/work-with-scope-functions)
  - [How to Use Extension Functions](how-to/extension-functions)
  - [How to Use Sealed Classes and Interfaces](how-to/use-sealed-classes)
  - [How to Use Property Delegates](how-to/use-delegates)
  - [How to Use Inline Functions](how-to/use-inline-functions-reified)
  - [How to Work with Coroutines Basics](how-to/handle-coroutines-and-async)
  - [How to Use Flow and State Management](how-to/flow-state-management)
  - [How to Organize Code with Packages and Modules](how-to/organize-code-packages)
  - [How to Handle Java Interoperability](how-to/integrate-with-java)
  - [How to Migrate Java Code to Kotlin](how-to/migrate-from-java)
  - [How to Access Databases with Exposed](how-to/database-access-exposed)
  - [How to Build REST APIs with Ktor](how-to/build-rest-apis-ktor)
  - [How to Set Up Gradle with Kotlin DSL](how-to/manage-dependencies-gradle)
  - [How to Test with JUnit and MockK](how-to/write-effective-tests)
  - [How to Optimize Kotlin Performance](how-to/optimize-performance)
  - [How to Build Multiplatform Applications](how-to/multiplatform-development)
  - [How to Use Advanced Coroutine Patterns](how-to/coroutines-advanced)
- [Reference](reference)
  - [Reference Overview](reference/overview)
  - [Kotlin Cheat Sheet](reference/cheat-sheet)
  - [Kotlin Glossary](reference/glossary)
  - [Kotlin Resources](reference/resources)
- [Explanation](explanation)
  - [Explanation Overview](explanation/overview)
  - [Kotlin Best Practices and Design Principles](explanation/best-practices)
  - [Common Kotlin Anti-Patterns](explanation/anti-patterns)
