apps/ayokoding-web/content/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/_index.md, before:

---
title: Elixir
date: 2025-12-21T00:00:00+07:00
draft: false
weight: 15000
---

- [Overview](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/overview)
- [Elixir Tutorials](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/tutorials)
  - [Overview](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/tutorials/overview)
  - [Initial Setup - Elixir](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/tutorials/initial-setup)
  - [Quick Start - Elixir](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/tutorials/quick-start)
  - [Beginner Tutorial - Elixir](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/tutorials/beginner)
  - [Intermediate Elixir](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/tutorials/intermediate)
  - [Advanced Elixir](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/tutorials/advanced)
- [Elixir How-To Guides](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/how-to)
  - [Overview](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/how-to/overview)
  - [Elixir Cookbook](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/how-to/cookbook)
  - [Pattern Matching Effectively](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/how-to/pattern-matching)
  - [Handle Errors with Result Tuples](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/how-to/error-handling)
  - [Recursive Programming Patterns](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/how-to/recursion)
  - [Managing State with GenServer](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/how-to/genserver)
  - [Work with Processes and Message Passing](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/how-to/processes-message-passing)
  - [Building Supervision Trees](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/how-to/supervision)
  - [Concurrent Programming with Task and Agent](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/how-to/task-agent)
  - [Phoenix REST API Development](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/how-to/phoenix-rest-api)
  - [LiveView Real-Time Interfaces](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/how-to/liveview)
  - [Ecto Database Patterns](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/how-to/ecto)
  - [Testing with ExUnit](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/how-to/testing)
  - [Mix Project Management](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/how-to/mix)
  - [Configuration and Environment Management](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/how-to/configuration)
  - [Performance Profiling and Optimization](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/how-to/performance)
  - [Metaprogramming with Macros](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/how-to/macros)
  - [File I/O and System Interaction](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/how-to/file-io)
  - [Working with Strings and Binaries](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/how-to/strings-binaries)
  - [Polymorphism with Protocols](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/how-to/protocols)
  - [Building CLI Applications](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/how-to/cli-applications)
  - [Deployment and Releases](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/how-to/deployment)
  - [Dependency Management with Hex](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/how-to/dependencies)
  - [Caching Strategies](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/how-to/caching)
  - [Debugging and Troubleshooting](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/how-to/debugging)
  - [Monitoring and Logging](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/how-to/monitoring)
- [Elixir Explanation](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/explanation)
  - [Overview](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/explanation/overview)
  - [Elixir Best Practices and Design Principles](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/explanation/best-practices)
  - [Elixir Anti-Patterns and Common Mistakes](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/explanation/anti-patterns)
- [Elixir Reference](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/reference)
  - [Overview](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/reference/overview)
  - [Elixir Cheat Sheet](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/reference/cheat-sheet)
  - [Elixir Glossary](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/reference/glossary)
  - [Elixir Learning Resources](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/reference/resources)

Commit message:

feat(ayokoding-web): add Elixir by-example tutorial with 60+ annotated examples
Created comprehensive by-example tutorial series for Elixir covering 90%
of the language through code-first learning approach.

Files created:
- 5 files: _index.md, overview.md, beginner.md, intermediate.md, advanced.md
- 4,300+ lines of educational content with heavily annotated code
- 23+ color-blind friendly Mermaid diagrams

Quality standards:
- All descriptions SEO-optimized (150-160 characters)
- Perfect Hugo compliance: absolute paths, no .md extensions
- No H1 headings in content
- All external links verified and cached

Content coverage:
- Beginner (15 examples): pattern matching, data structures, functions
- Intermediate (20 examples): protocols, processes, testing, error handling
- Advanced (25 examples): GenServer, Supervisor, metaprogramming, OTP

Progressive learning path: Overview → Beginner → Intermediate → Advanced

Target audience: Experienced developers switching to Elixir.

apps/ayokoding-web/content/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/_index.md, after:

---
title: Elixir
date: 2025-12-21T00:00:00+07:00
draft: false
weight: 15000
---

- [Overview](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/overview)
- [Elixir Tutorials](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/tutorials)
  - [Overview](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/tutorials/overview)
  - [Initial Setup - Elixir](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/tutorials/initial-setup)
  - [Quick Start - Elixir](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/tutorials/quick-start)
  - [Beginner Tutorial - Elixir](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/tutorials/beginner)
  - [Intermediate Elixir](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/tutorials/intermediate)
  - [Advanced Elixir](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/tutorials/advanced)
  - [By Example](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/tutorials/by-example)
    - [Overview](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/tutorials/by-example/overview)
    - [Beginner Examples - Elixir By Example](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/tutorials/by-example/beginner)
    - [Intermediate Examples - Elixir By Example](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/tutorials/by-example/intermediate)
    - [Advanced Examples - Elixir By Example](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/tutorials/by-example/advanced)
- [Elixir How-To Guides](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/how-to)
  - [Overview](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/how-to/overview)
  - [Elixir Cookbook](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/how-to/cookbook)
  - [Pattern Matching Effectively](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/how-to/pattern-matching)
  - [Handle Errors with Result Tuples](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/how-to/error-handling)
  - [Recursive Programming Patterns](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/how-to/recursion)
  - [Managing State with GenServer](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/how-to/genserver)
  - [Work with Processes and Message Passing](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/how-to/processes-message-passing)
  - [Building Supervision Trees](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/how-to/supervision)
  - [Concurrent Programming with Task and Agent](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/how-to/task-agent)
  - [Phoenix REST API Development](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/how-to/phoenix-rest-api)
  - [LiveView Real-Time Interfaces](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/how-to/liveview)
  - [Ecto Database Patterns](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/how-to/ecto)
  - [Testing with ExUnit](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/how-to/testing)
  - [Mix Project Management](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/how-to/mix)
  - [Configuration and Environment Management](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/how-to/configuration)
  - [Performance Profiling and Optimization](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/how-to/performance)
  - [Metaprogramming with Macros](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/how-to/macros)
  - [File I/O and System Interaction](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/how-to/file-io)
  - [Working with Strings and Binaries](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/how-to/strings-binaries)
  - [Polymorphism with Protocols](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/how-to/protocols)
  - [Building CLI Applications](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/how-to/cli-applications)
  - [Deployment and Releases](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/how-to/deployment)
  - [Dependency Management with Hex](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/how-to/dependencies)
  - [Caching Strategies](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/how-to/caching)
  - [Debugging and Troubleshooting](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/how-to/debugging)
  - [Monitoring and Logging](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/how-to/monitoring)
- [Elixir Explanation](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/explanation)
  - [Overview](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/explanation/overview)
  - [Elixir Best Practices and Design Principles](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/explanation/best-practices)
  - [Elixir Anti-Patterns and Common Mistakes](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/explanation/anti-patterns)
- [Elixir Reference](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/reference)
  - [Overview](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/reference/overview)
  - [Elixir Cheat Sheet](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/reference/cheat-sheet)
  - [Elixir Glossary](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/reference/glossary)
  - [Elixir Learning Resources](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/elixir/reference/resources)
