apps/ayokoding-web/content/en/learn/software-engineering/web-platform/jvm-spring-boot/overview.md, before:

---
title: Overview
weight: 100000
date: 2025-12-30T00:00:00+07:00
draft: false
description: Build production-ready enterprise applications with Spring Boot using Java or Kotlin on the JVM platform
---

Spring Boot is an opinionated framework built on the Spring ecosystem that simplifies the creation of production-ready, stand-alone Spring applications using Java or Kotlin. It provides convention-over-configuration defaults while maintaining full flexibility for customization.

**Java or Kotlin?** Both languages are first-class citizens in Spring Boot. All examples in this guide are provided in both Java and Kotlin, allowing you to learn Spring Boot concepts in your preferred JVM language.

## What You'll Learn

- **Spring Boot Fundamentals** - Auto-configuration, starters, and application structure
- **REST API Development** - Controllers, request mapping, and response handling
- **Data Access** - Spring Data JPA, repositories, and database integration
- **Security** - Authentication, authorization, and Spring Security configuration
- **Testing** - Unit tests, integration tests, and test containers
- **Production Features** - Actuator, monitoring, logging, and deployment

## Platform Characteristics

### Convention Over Configuration

Spring Boot eliminates boilerplate configuration through intelligent defaults and auto-configuration. Start building features immediately without extensive XML or annotation setup.

### Enterprise-Grade Ecosystem

Access the complete Spring ecosystem including Spring Data, Spring Security, Spring Cloud, and Spring Batch. Build everything from simple REST APIs to complex microservices architectures.

### Production-Ready Features

Spring Boot Actuator provides built-in health checks, metrics, and monitoring endpoints. Applications come ready for production deployment with minimal additional configuration.

### Broad Database Support

Spring Data JPA abstracts database interactions with repository patterns supporting PostgreSQL, MySQL, Oracle, MongoDB, and many other data stores through consistent interfaces.

## Getting Started

Before diving into Spring Boot development, get up and running:

1. **[Initial Setup](/en/learn/software-engineering/web-platform/jvm-spring-boot/initial-setup)** - Install Java/Kotlin, Maven/Gradle, IDE, Spring Initializr, verify your setup
2. **[Quick Start](/en/learn/software-engineering/web-platform/jvm-spring-boot/quick-start)** - Your first Spring Boot app, basic REST API, essential patterns

These foundational tutorials (0-30% coverage) prepare you for comprehensive Spring Boot learning in both Java and Kotlin.

Spring Boot development typically progresses through:

1. **Project Initialization** - Spring Initializr and dependency management
2. **Core Concepts** - Controllers, services, repositories, and entities
3. **REST API Design** - Building RESTful web services
4. **Database Integration** - JPA entities, repositories, and migrations
5. **Security Implementation** - Authentication and authorization patterns
6. **Testing Strategies** - Unit, integration, and end-to-end testing
7. **Deployment** - Packaging and deployment to cloud platforms

## Common Use Cases

- **Enterprise REST APIs** - Microservices and API backends
- **Web Applications** - Server-side rendered web applications with Thymeleaf
- **Batch Processing** - Scheduled jobs and data processing pipelines
- **Cloud-Native Applications** - Spring Cloud for distributed systems
- **Integration Platforms** - Enterprise integration patterns with Spring Integration
- **Data Processing** - ETL pipelines and data transformation

## Why Spring Boot

### When to Choose Spring Boot

Spring Boot excels in scenarios requiring:

- **Enterprise applications** - Complex business logic with structured architecture and strong typing
- **JVM ecosystem integration** - Seamless integration with Kafka, Elasticsearch, Cassandra, Redis
- **Team experience** - Teams familiar with Java and object-oriented programming patterns
- **Microservices architecture** - Spring Cloud provides service discovery, config management, circuit breakers
- **Strong typing guarantees** - Compile-time type safety and IDE tooling support
- **Mature ecosystem** - Vast library support, established patterns, enterprise-grade tools

### Spring Boot vs Other Frameworks

- **vs Django (Python)** - Spring Boot offers stronger typing and JVM performance; Django provides faster prototyping and simpler syntax
- **vs Express (Node.js)** - Spring Boot provides enterprise patterns and type safety; Express offers simplicity and JavaScript familiarity
- **vs Ruby on Rails** - Spring Boot delivers JVM ecosystem integration; Rails prioritizes developer happiness and convention
- **vs Phoenix (Elixir)** - Spring Boot suits complex business logic; Phoenix excels at real-time features and fault tolerance
- **vs ASP.NET Core (C#)** - Both are enterprise-grade; Spring Boot has broader open-source ecosystem; ASP.NET Core integrates with Microsoft stack

## Spring Boot Versions & Editions

### Version Compatibility

- **Spring Boot 3.x** (Current) - Requires Java 17+, Jakarta EE 9+ (javax → jakarta namespace migration), Spring Framework 6.x
- **Spring Boot 2.x** (Legacy) - Supports Java 8-17, Java EE (javax namespace), Spring Framework 5.x
- **Migration Path** - Upgrading from 2.x to 3.x requires Java 17+ and jakarta namespace changes throughout codebase
- **Long-Term Support** - Spring Boot 2.7.x receives OSS support until August 2024; enterprise support available via commercial offerings

### Dependency Compatibility

- **Spring Cloud** - Spring Boot 3.x requires Spring Cloud 2022.x (Kilburn release train), Spring Boot 2.x uses Spring Cloud 2021.x (Jubilee)
- **Spring Data** - Version alignment critical; Spring Boot 3.x uses Spring Data 2023.x, Spring Boot 2.x uses Spring Data 2.7.x
- **Database Drivers** - PostgreSQL JDBC 42.6+ for Spring Boot 3.x, 42.2+ for Spring Boot 2.x

### Starter Templates

Spring Boot provides pre-configured starter dependencies that eliminate manual dependency management:

- **spring-boot-starter-web** - REST APIs with embedded Tomcat, Spring MVC, Jackson JSON
- **spring-boot-starter-data-jpa** - Database access with Hibernate, Spring Data JPA, transaction management
- **spring-boot-starter-security** - Spring Security with authentication, authorization, CSRF protection
- **spring-boot-starter-test** - Testing with JUnit 5, Spring Test, MockMvc, Mockito, AssertJ
- **spring-boot-starter-actuator** - Production monitoring with health checks, metrics, endpoints
- **spring-boot-starter-validation** - Bean Validation with Hibernate Validator
- **spring-boot-starter-cache** - Caching abstraction with EhCache, Redis, Caffeine support
- **spring-boot-starter-webflux** - Reactive web applications with Netty, Spring WebFlux

## Prerequisites

### For Java/Kotlin Developers New to Spring

- **Java 17+ or Kotlin 1.9+ installed** - Spring Boot 3.x requires Java 17 minimum (Java 21+ recommended) or Kotlin 1.9+
- **Maven or Gradle** - Understanding of dependency management and build tools (Maven 3.6+ or Gradle 7.5+, Gradle recommended for Kotlin)
- **Java or Kotlin fundamentals** - OOP principles, collections, streams/sequences, lambda expressions/higher-order functions, annotations, generics
- **HTTP and REST** - HTTP methods (GET, POST, PUT, DELETE), status codes (200, 404, 500), JSON serialization
- **SQL basics** - SELECT, INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE, JOINs for database examples
- **IDE** - IntelliJ IDEA (best Kotlin support), Eclipse, or VS Code with Java/Kotlin extensions

### For Python/Ruby Developers Switching to Java/Spring

- **Java learning curve** - Expect 2-4 weeks for Java syntax (static typing, verbosity, compilation)
- **Annotation-driven configuration** - Spring uses annotations (`@Controller`, `@Service`) instead of Rails conventions or Django decorators
- **Dependency injection** - Different from Django's explicit imports or Rails' ActiveSupport autoloading
- **Statically typed** - Compile-time type checking vs Python/Ruby's dynamic typing
- **Build tools** - Maven/Gradle replaces pip/bundler; pom.xml/build.gradle vs requirements.txt/Gemfile
- **JVM ecosystem** - Understanding classpath, JAR files, and JVM startup differs from interpreted languages

### For C# Developers Coming from .NET

- **Framework similarities** - Spring Boot resembles ASP.NET Core (dependency injection, middleware, MVC)
- **Annotation syntax** - Spring's `@Autowired` similar to .NET's `[Inject]`, `@RestController` similar to `[ApiController]`
- **Package management** - Maven/Gradle analogous to NuGet
- **Platform differences** - JVM ecosystem vs .NET runtime; Java 17 vs C# 11 language features
- **Tooling** - IntelliJ IDEA vs Visual Studio; similar refactoring and debugging capabilities

### For Node.js/Express Developers Switching to JVM

- **Static typing** - Java requires type declarations; TypeScript experience helps but Java is more verbose
- **Synchronous by default** - Spring Boot MVC is blocking (thread-per-request); use WebFlux for async patterns like Express
- **Dependency injection** - Spring's IoC container vs Express's manual require/import and middleware chaining
- **Build process** - Compilation step (Maven/Gradle) vs npm's direct execution
- **Performance characteristics** - JVM warmup vs V8's immediate execution; different memory management

### For Complete Framework Beginners

- **Start with Java fundamentals** - Complete Java basics before tackling Spring Boot
- **Understand web concepts** - HTTP, REST, JSON, client-server architecture
- **Follow beginner examples** - Start with Example 1 and progress sequentially through all 25 beginner examples
- **Build projects** - Hands-on practice essential; theory alone insufficient for framework mastery
- **Use Spring Initializr** - Start projects via start.spring.io for proper dependency setup

## Community and Resources

- [Official Spring Boot Documentation](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/html/)
- [Spring Guides](https://spring.io/guides) - Getting Started guides and tutorials
- [Spring Blog](https://spring.io/blog) - Official announcements, releases, and articles
- [Spring Boot GitHub](https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-boot) - Source code and issue tracking
- [Stack Overflow Spring Boot Tag](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/spring-boot)
- [Baeldung Spring Tutorials](https://www.baeldung.com/spring-boot) - In-depth tutorials and examples
- [Spring Academy](https://spring.academy/) - Official training and certification
- [Spring Community Forum](https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-boot/discussions)

## Next Steps

Explore the tutorials section to begin building with Spring Boot, from initial project setup through REST API development, database integration, security, and production deployment.

Commit message:

feat(docs,ayokoding-web): add comprehensive Spring Framework content
Add Spring Framework as prerequisite foundation to Spring Boot covering core IoC/DI, AOP,
data access, and web MVC concepts.

Documentation:
- Create 16 comprehensive docs files (README + 15 topics)
- Cover IoC/DI, bean lifecycle, AOP, transactions, JdbcTemplate, Spring MVC, REST APIs
- Include both Java and Kotlin examples throughout
- Use Islamic finance context (Zakat, Murabaha, Sadaqah)
- Cross-reference Spring Boot as build-on-top framework

Tutorials:
- Create complete tutorial structure (overview, initial-setup, quick-start)
- Build 75 heavily annotated by-example tutorials (25 beginner + 25 intermediate +
  25 advanced)
- Achieve 95% Spring Framework coverage
- Dual-language examples (Java and Kotlin)
- 1-2.25 annotation density per example

Navigation Updates:
- Add jvm-spring to software-engineering and web-platform navigation
- Position jvm-spring (100002) before jvm-spring-boot (100003)
- Add Prerequisites section to Spring Boot overview emphasizing Spring Framework foundation
- Update weight ordering to reflect prerequisite relationship

Total: 26 new files, 4 modified files (~240KB of educational content)

apps/ayokoding-web/content/en/learn/software-engineering/web-platform/jvm-spring-boot/overview.md, after:

---
title: Overview
weight: 100000
date: 2025-12-30T00:00:00+07:00
draft: false
description: Build production-ready enterprise applications with Spring Boot using Java or Kotlin on the JVM platform
---

Spring Boot is an opinionated framework built on the Spring ecosystem that simplifies the creation of production-ready, stand-alone Spring applications using Java or Kotlin. It provides convention-over-configuration defaults while maintaining full flexibility for customization.

**Java or Kotlin?** Both languages are first-class citizens in Spring Boot. All examples in this guide are provided in both Java and Kotlin, allowing you to learn Spring Boot concepts in your preferred JVM language.

## What You'll Learn

- **Spring Boot Fundamentals** - Auto-configuration, starters, and application structure
- **REST API Development** - Controllers, request mapping, and response handling
- **Data Access** - Spring Data JPA, repositories, and database integration
- **Security** - Authentication, authorization, and Spring Security configuration
- **Testing** - Unit tests, integration tests, and test containers
- **Production Features** - Actuator, monitoring, logging, and deployment

## Prerequisites

**Before learning Spring Boot, you should understand Spring Framework fundamentals:**

Spring Boot is built on top of the Spring Framework and provides auto-configuration and opinionated defaults. To effectively use Spring Boot, you need to understand the core Spring concepts that Spring Boot builds upon.

**Required Foundation**: [JVM Spring Framework](/en/learn/software-engineering/web-platform/jvm-spring)

Understanding these Spring Framework concepts is essential:

- **Inversion of Control (IoC)** - How Spring manages object lifecycles
- **Dependency Injection** - Constructor injection, @Autowired, bean wiring
- **Bean Configuration** - @Configuration, @Bean, @ComponentScan
- **ApplicationContext** - The core Spring container
- **Bean Lifecycle** - Initialization, destruction, scopes
- **Aspect-Oriented Programming (AOP)** - Transaction management, cross-cutting concerns
- **Spring Data Access** - JdbcTemplate, transaction management
- **Spring MVC** - Web layer fundamentals, DispatcherServlet

**Spring Boot adds**: Auto-configuration, embedded servers, starter dependencies, production-ready features (Actuator), and opinionated defaults on top of these core Spring concepts.

**If you're new to Spring**, start with [JVM Spring Framework](/en/learn/software-engineering/web-platform/jvm-spring) to learn the foundational concepts, then return to Spring Boot to learn how it simplifies Spring application development.

## Platform Characteristics

### Convention Over Configuration

Spring Boot eliminates boilerplate configuration through intelligent defaults and auto-configuration. Start building features immediately without extensive XML or annotation setup.

### Enterprise-Grade Ecosystem

Access the complete Spring ecosystem including Spring Data, Spring Security, Spring Cloud, and Spring Batch. Build everything from simple REST APIs to complex microservices architectures.

### Production-Ready Features

Spring Boot Actuator provides built-in health checks, metrics, and monitoring endpoints. Applications come ready for production deployment with minimal additional configuration.

### Broad Database Support

Spring Data JPA abstracts database interactions with repository patterns supporting PostgreSQL, MySQL, Oracle, MongoDB, and many other data stores through consistent interfaces.

## Getting Started

Before diving into Spring Boot development, get up and running:

1. **[Initial Setup](/en/learn/software-engineering/web-platform/jvm-spring-boot/initial-setup)** - Install Java/Kotlin, Maven/Gradle, IDE, Spring Initializr, verify your setup
2. **[Quick Start](/en/learn/software-engineering/web-platform/jvm-spring-boot/quick-start)** - Your first Spring Boot app, basic REST API, essential patterns

These foundational tutorials (0-30% coverage) prepare you for comprehensive Spring Boot learning in both Java and Kotlin.

Spring Boot development typically progresses through:

1. **Project Initialization** - Spring Initializr and dependency management
2. **Core Concepts** - Controllers, services, repositories, and entities
3. **REST API Design** - Building RESTful web services
4. **Database Integration** - JPA entities, repositories, and migrations
5. **Security Implementation** - Authentication and authorization patterns
6. **Testing Strategies** - Unit, integration, and end-to-end testing
7. **Deployment** - Packaging and deployment to cloud platforms

## Common Use Cases

- **Enterprise REST APIs** - Microservices and API backends
- **Web Applications** - Server-side rendered web applications with Thymeleaf
- **Batch Processing** - Scheduled jobs and data processing pipelines
- **Cloud-Native Applications** - Spring Cloud for distributed systems
- **Integration Platforms** - Enterprise integration patterns with Spring Integration
- **Data Processing** - ETL pipelines and data transformation

## Why Spring Boot

### When to Choose Spring Boot

Spring Boot excels in scenarios requiring:

- **Enterprise applications** - Complex business logic with structured architecture and strong typing
- **JVM ecosystem integration** - Seamless integration with Kafka, Elasticsearch, Cassandra, Redis
- **Team experience** - Teams familiar with Java and object-oriented programming patterns
- **Microservices architecture** - Spring Cloud provides service discovery, config management, circuit breakers
- **Strong typing guarantees** - Compile-time type safety and IDE tooling support
- **Mature ecosystem** - Vast library support, established patterns, enterprise-grade tools

### Spring Boot vs Other Frameworks

- **vs Django (Python)** - Spring Boot offers stronger typing and JVM performance; Django provides faster prototyping and simpler syntax
- **vs Express (Node.js)** - Spring Boot provides enterprise patterns and type safety; Express offers simplicity and JavaScript familiarity
- **vs Ruby on Rails** - Spring Boot delivers JVM ecosystem integration; Rails prioritizes developer happiness and convention
- **vs Phoenix (Elixir)** - Spring Boot suits complex business logic; Phoenix excels at real-time features and fault tolerance
- **vs ASP.NET Core (C#)** - Both are enterprise-grade; Spring Boot has broader open-source ecosystem; ASP.NET Core integrates with Microsoft stack

## Spring Boot Versions & Editions

### Version Compatibility

- **Spring Boot 3.x** (Current) - Requires Java 17+, Jakarta EE 9+ (javax → jakarta namespace migration), Spring Framework 6.x
- **Spring Boot 2.x** (Legacy) - Supports Java 8-17, Java EE (javax namespace), Spring Framework 5.x
- **Migration Path** - Upgrading from 2.x to 3.x requires Java 17+ and jakarta namespace changes throughout codebase
- **Long-Term Support** - Spring Boot 2.7.x receives OSS support until August 2024; enterprise support available via commercial offerings

### Dependency Compatibility

- **Spring Cloud** - Spring Boot 3.x requires Spring Cloud 2022.x (Kilburn release train), Spring Boot 2.x uses Spring Cloud 2021.x (Jubilee)
- **Spring Data** - Version alignment critical; Spring Boot 3.x uses Spring Data 2023.x, Spring Boot 2.x uses Spring Data 2.7.x
- **Database Drivers** - PostgreSQL JDBC 42.6+ for Spring Boot 3.x, 42.2+ for Spring Boot 2.x

### Starter Templates

Spring Boot provides pre-configured starter dependencies that eliminate manual dependency management:

- **spring-boot-starter-web** - REST APIs with embedded Tomcat, Spring MVC, Jackson JSON
- **spring-boot-starter-data-jpa** - Database access with Hibernate, Spring Data JPA, transaction management
- **spring-boot-starter-security** - Spring Security with authentication, authorization, CSRF protection
- **spring-boot-starter-test** - Testing with JUnit 5, Spring Test, MockMvc, Mockito, AssertJ
- **spring-boot-starter-actuator** - Production monitoring with health checks, metrics, endpoints
- **spring-boot-starter-validation** - Bean Validation with Hibernate Validator
- **spring-boot-starter-cache** - Caching abstraction with EhCache, Redis, Caffeine support
- **spring-boot-starter-webflux** - Reactive web applications with Netty, Spring WebFlux

## Prerequisites

### For Java/Kotlin Developers New to Spring

- **Java 17+ or Kotlin 1.9+ installed** - Spring Boot 3.x requires Java 17 minimum (Java 21+ recommended) or Kotlin 1.9+
- **Maven or Gradle** - Understanding of dependency management and build tools (Maven 3.6+ or Gradle 7.5+, Gradle recommended for Kotlin)
- **Java or Kotlin fundamentals** - OOP principles, collections, streams/sequences, lambda expressions/higher-order functions, annotations, generics
- **HTTP and REST** - HTTP methods (GET, POST, PUT, DELETE), status codes (200, 404, 500), JSON serialization
- **SQL basics** - SELECT, INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE, JOINs for database examples
- **IDE** - IntelliJ IDEA (best Kotlin support), Eclipse, or VS Code with Java/Kotlin extensions

### For Python/Ruby Developers Switching to Java/Spring

- **Java learning curve** - Expect 2-4 weeks for Java syntax (static typing, verbosity, compilation)
- **Annotation-driven configuration** - Spring uses annotations (`@Controller`, `@Service`) instead of Rails conventions or Django decorators
- **Dependency injection** - Different from Django's explicit imports or Rails' ActiveSupport autoloading
- **Statically typed** - Compile-time type checking vs Python/Ruby's dynamic typing
- **Build tools** - Maven/Gradle replaces pip/bundler; pom.xml/build.gradle vs requirements.txt/Gemfile
- **JVM ecosystem** - Understanding classpath, JAR files, and JVM startup differs from interpreted languages

### For C# Developers Coming from .NET

- **Framework similarities** - Spring Boot resembles ASP.NET Core (dependency injection, middleware, MVC)
- **Annotation syntax** - Spring's `@Autowired` similar to .NET's `[Inject]`, `@RestController` similar to `[ApiController]`
- **Package management** - Maven/Gradle analogous to NuGet
- **Platform differences** - JVM ecosystem vs .NET runtime; Java 17 vs C# 11 language features
- **Tooling** - IntelliJ IDEA vs Visual Studio; similar refactoring and debugging capabilities

### For Node.js/Express Developers Switching to JVM

- **Static typing** - Java requires type declarations; TypeScript experience helps but Java is more verbose
- **Synchronous by default** - Spring Boot MVC is blocking (thread-per-request); use WebFlux for async patterns like Express
- **Dependency injection** - Spring's IoC container vs Express's manual require/import and middleware chaining
- **Build process** - Compilation step (Maven/Gradle) vs npm's direct execution
- **Performance characteristics** - JVM warmup vs V8's immediate execution; different memory management

### For Complete Framework Beginners

- **Start with Java fundamentals** - Complete Java basics before tackling Spring Boot
- **Understand web concepts** - HTTP, REST, JSON, client-server architecture
- **Follow beginner examples** - Start with Example 1 and progress sequentially through all 25 beginner examples
- **Build projects** - Hands-on practice essential; theory alone insufficient for framework mastery
- **Use Spring Initializr** - Start projects via start.spring.io for proper dependency setup

## Community and Resources

- [Official Spring Boot Documentation](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/html/)
- [Spring Guides](https://spring.io/guides) - Getting Started guides and tutorials
- [Spring Blog](https://spring.io/blog) - Official announcements, releases, and articles
- [Spring Boot GitHub](https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-boot) - Source code and issue tracking
- [Stack Overflow Spring Boot Tag](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/spring-boot)
- [Baeldung Spring Tutorials](https://www.baeldung.com/spring-boot) - In-depth tutorials and examples
- [Spring Academy](https://spring.academy/) - Official training and certification
- [Spring Community Forum](https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-boot/discussions)

## Next Steps

Explore the tutorials section to begin building with Spring Boot, from initial project setup through REST API development, database integration, security, and production deployment.
