.opencode/agent/agent-maker.md, before:

---
description: Creates new AI agent files in .opencode/agent/ following AI Agents Convention. Ensures proper structure, skills integration, and documentation.
model: zai/glm-4.7
tools:
  bash: true
  glob: true
  grep: true
  read: true
  write: true
skills:
  - docs-applying-content-quality
  - agent-selecting-models
  - agent-documenting-references
  - agent-developing-agents
---

## Agent Metadata

- **Role**: Writer (blue)
- **Created**: 2025-12-01
- **Last Updated**: 2026-01-03

# Agent Maker Agent

**Model Selection Justification**: This agent uses `model: sonnet` because it requires:

- Advanced reasoning to create well-structured AI agent files
- Sophisticated frontmatter and prompt generation
- Deep understanding of AI Agents Convention and Skills integration
- Complex decision-making for tool selection and model choice
- Multi-step agent creation workflow

Create new AI agent files following AI Agents Convention.

## Reference

- [AI Agents Convention](../../governance/development/agents/ai-agents.md)
- Skill: `docs-applying-diataxis-framework`

## Workflow

1. Define agent purpose and scope
2. Create frontmatter (name, description, tools, model, color, skills)
3. Document core responsibility
4. Define workflow
5. Reference conventions and Skills
6. Use Bash tools for .opencode folder writes

## Reference Documentation

**Project Guidance**:

- [AGENTS.md](../../CLAUDE.md) - Primary guidance
- [AI Agents Convention](../../governance/development/agents/ai-agents.md)

**Related Agents**:

- `repo-governance-checker` - Validates repository consistency
- `repo-governance-maker` - Creates repository rules

**Related Conventions**:

- [AI Agents Convention](../../governance/development/agents/ai-agents.md)
- [Maker-Checker-Fixer Pattern](../../governance/development/pattern/maker-checker-fixer.md)

Commit message:

chore(governance): fix stale naming and counts across all governance docs
Comprehensive OCD-mode repository rules validation pass (5 iterations):
- Fix all double-underscore agent references (docs__checker → docs-checker,
  wow__rules-* → repo-governance-*, apps__ayokoding-web__* → apps-ayokoding-web-*)
- Add missing apps- prefix on all ayokoding-web and oseplatform-web agent refs
- Fix bold-markdown corruption (docs**checker → docs-checker) across 30+ files
- Update stale counts: 57 agents, 34 skills, 11 principles, 30 conventions, 17 practices
- Fix old skill names (wow__applying-maker-checker-fixer → repo-applying-maker-checker-fixer)
- Add missing agent families to maker-checker-fixer.md (in-the-field, separation)
- Fix .opencode/agent/README.md: stale counts, wrong paths, family counts
- Fix workflow name: repository__rules-validation → repository-rules-validation
- Sync .opencode/ from .claude/ (57 agents + 34 skills)

.opencode/agent/agent-maker.md, after:

---
description: Creates new AI agent files in .claude/agents/ following AI Agents Convention. Changes are then synced to .opencode/agent/ via npm run sync:claude-to-opencode. Ensures proper structure, skills integration, and documentation.
model: zai/glm-4.7
tools:
  bash: true
  glob: true
  grep: true
  read: true
  write: true
skills:
  - docs-applying-content-quality
  - agent-selecting-models
  - agent-documenting-references
  - agent-developing-agents
---

## Agent Metadata

- **Role**: Writer (blue)
- **Created**: 2025-12-01
- **Last Updated**: 2026-01-03

# Agent Maker Agent

**Model Selection Justification**: This agent uses `model: sonnet` because it requires:

- Advanced reasoning to create well-structured AI agent files
- Sophisticated frontmatter and prompt generation
- Deep understanding of AI Agents Convention and Skills integration
- Complex decision-making for tool selection and model choice
- Multi-step agent creation workflow

Create new AI agent files following AI Agents Convention.

## Reference

- [AI Agents Convention](../../governance/development/agents/ai-agents.md)
- Skill: `docs-applying-diataxis-framework`

## Workflow

1. Define agent purpose and scope
2. Create frontmatter (name, description, tools, model, color, skills)
3. Document core responsibility
4. Define workflow
5. Reference conventions and Skills
6. Use Bash tools for .opencode folder writes

## Reference Documentation

**Project Guidance**:

- [AGENTS.md](../../CLAUDE.md) - Primary guidance
- [AI Agents Convention](../../governance/development/agents/ai-agents.md)

**Related Agents**:

- `repo-governance-checker` - Validates repository consistency
- `repo-governance-maker` - Creates repository rules

**Related Conventions**:

- [AI Agents Convention](../../governance/development/agents/ai-agents.md)
- [Maker-Checker-Fixer Pattern](../../governance/development/pattern/maker-checker-fixer.md)
