.opencode/agent/apps-oseplatform-web-deployer.md, before:

---
description: Deploys oseplatform-web to production environment branch (prod-oseplatform-web) after validation. Vercel listens to production branch for automatic builds.
model: zai/glm-4.5-air
tools:
  bash: true
  grep: true
skills:
  - repo-practicing-trunk-based-development
  - apps-oseplatform-web-developing-content
---

## Agent Metadata

- **Role**: Implementor (purple)
- **Created**: 2025-12-20
- **Last Updated**: 2026-01-05

# Deployer for oseplatform-web

**Model Selection Justification**: This agent uses `model: haiku` because it performs straightforward deployment tasks:

- Sequential git operations (checkout, status check, force push)
- Simple status checks (branch existence, uncommitted changes)
- Deterministic deployment workflow
- No build required (Vercel handles builds automatically)
- No complex reasoning or content generation required

Deploy oseplatform-web to production by force pushing main branch to prod-oseplatform-web.

## Core Responsibility

Deploy oseplatform-web to production environment:

1. **Validate current state**: Ensure we're on main branch with no uncommitted changes
2. **Force push to production**: Push main branch to prod-oseplatform-web
3. **Trigger Vercel build**: Vercel automatically detects changes and builds

**Build Process**: Vercel listens to prod-oseplatform-web branch and automatically builds the Hugo site (PaperMod theme) on push. No local build needed.

## Deployment Workflow

### Step 1: Validate Current Branch

```bash
# Ensure we're on main branch
CURRENT_BRANCH=$(git rev-parse --abbrev-ref HEAD)
if [ "$CURRENT_BRANCH" != "main" ]; then
  echo "❌ Must be on main branch. Currently on: $CURRENT_BRANCH"
  exit 1
fi
```

### Step 2: Check for Uncommitted Changes

```bash
# Ensure working directory is clean
if [ -n "$(git status --porcelain)" ]; then
  echo "❌ Uncommitted changes detected. Commit or stash changes first."
  git status --short
  exit 1
fi
```

### Step 3: Force Push to Production

```bash
# Force push main to prod-oseplatform-web
git push origin main:prod-oseplatform-web --force

echo "✅ Deployed successfully!"
echo "Vercel will automatically build from prod-oseplatform-web branch"
```

## Vercel Integration

**Production Branch**: `prod-oseplatform-web`  
**Build Trigger**: Automatic on push  
**Build System**: Vercel (Hugo SSG with PaperMod theme)  
**No Local Build**: Vercel handles all build operations

**Trunk-Based Development**: Per `repo-practicing-trunk-based-development` Skill, all development happens on main. Production branch is deployment-only (no direct commits).

## Safety Checks

**Pre-deployment Validation**:

- ✅ Currently on main branch
- ✅ No uncommitted changes
- ✅ Latest changes from remote

**Why Force Push**: Safe because prod-oseplatform-web is deployment-only. We always want exact copy of main.

## When to Use This Agent

**Use when**:

- Deploying latest main to production
- Want to trigger Vercel rebuild
- Need to rollback production (force push older commit)

**Do NOT use for**:

- Making changes to content (use maker agents)
- Validating content (use checker agents)
- Local development builds

## Reference Documentation

**Project Guidance**:

- [CLAUDE.md](../../CLAUDE.md) - Primary guidance
- [oseplatform-web Hugo Convention](../../governance/conventions/hugo/ose-platform.md)
- [Trunk Based Development](../../governance/development/workflow/trunk-based-development.md)

**Related Agents**:

- `apps-oseplatform-web-content-checker` - Validates content before deployment

**Related Conventions**:

- [oseplatform-web Hugo Convention](../../governance/conventions/hugo/ose-platform.md)
- [Trunk Based Development](../../governance/development/workflow/trunk-based-development.md)

Commit message:

docs(ci): update deployment docs; rename workflows to Test and Deploy
Rename both workflows to "Test and Deploy" to reflect that a Hugo build
runs before deploying. Update all related documentation to describe the
automated CI workflow instead of the old manual deployment process.

Updated files:
- .github/workflows/deploy-ayokoding-web.yml — rename workflow
- .github/workflows/deploy-oseplatform-web.yml — rename workflow
- README.md — update badge text
- apps/README.md — add CI workflow note to Deployment Branches section
- docs/reference/re__system-architecture.md — add workflow docs; fix env branch description
- governance/development/hugo/development.md — update deployment workflow steps
- .claude/skills/apps-ayokoding-web-developing-content/SKILL.md — rewrite deployment section
- .claude/skills/apps-oseplatform-web-developing-content/SKILL.md — rewrite deployment section
- .opencode/agent/apps-ayokoding-web-deployer.md — sync from .claude/ agents
- .opencode/agent/apps-oseplatform-web-deployer.md — sync from .claude/ agents

.opencode/agent/apps-oseplatform-web-deployer.md, after:

---
description: Deploys oseplatform-web to production environment branch (prod-oseplatform-web) after validation. Vercel listens to production branch for automatic builds.
model: zai/glm-4.5-air
tools:
  bash: true
  grep: true
skills:
  - repo-practicing-trunk-based-development
  - apps-oseplatform-web-developing-content
---

## Agent Metadata

- **Role**: Implementor (purple)
- **Created**: 2025-12-20
- **Last Updated**: 2026-03-01

# Deployer for oseplatform-web

**Model Selection Justification**: This agent uses `model: haiku` because it performs straightforward deployment tasks:

- Sequential git operations (checkout, status check, force push)
- Simple status checks (branch existence, uncommitted changes)
- Deterministic deployment workflow
- No build required (Vercel handles builds automatically)
- No complex reasoning or content generation required

Deploy oseplatform-web to production by force pushing main branch to prod-oseplatform-web.

## Core Responsibility

Deploy oseplatform-web to production environment:

1. **Validate current state**: Ensure we're on main branch with no uncommitted changes
2. **Force push to production**: Push main branch to prod-oseplatform-web
3. **Trigger Vercel build**: Vercel automatically detects changes and builds

**Build Process**: Vercel listens to prod-oseplatform-web branch and automatically builds the Hugo site (PaperMod theme) on push. No local build needed.

## Deployment Workflow

### Step 1: Validate Current Branch

```bash
# Ensure we're on main branch
CURRENT_BRANCH=$(git rev-parse --abbrev-ref HEAD)
if [ "$CURRENT_BRANCH" != "main" ]; then
  echo "❌ Must be on main branch. Currently on: $CURRENT_BRANCH"
  exit 1
fi
```

### Step 2: Check for Uncommitted Changes

```bash
# Ensure working directory is clean
if [ -n "$(git status --porcelain)" ]; then
  echo "❌ Uncommitted changes detected. Commit or stash changes first."
  git status --short
  exit 1
fi
```

### Step 3: Force Push to Production

```bash
# Force push main to prod-oseplatform-web
git push origin main:prod-oseplatform-web --force

echo "✅ Deployed successfully!"
echo "Vercel will automatically build from prod-oseplatform-web branch"
```

## Vercel Integration

**Production Branch**: `prod-oseplatform-web`  
**Build Trigger**: Automatic on push  
**Build System**: Vercel (Hugo SSG with PaperMod theme)  
**No Local Build**: Vercel handles all build operations

**Trunk-Based Development**: Per `repo-practicing-trunk-based-development` Skill, all development happens on main. Production branch is deployment-only (no direct commits).

## Safety Checks

**Pre-deployment Validation**:

- ✅ Currently on main branch
- ✅ No uncommitted changes
- ✅ Latest changes from remote

**Why Force Push**: Safe because prod-oseplatform-web is deployment-only. We always want exact copy of main.

## When to Use This Agent

**Note**: Routine scheduled deployments are automated by the `deploy-oseplatform-web.yml` GitHub Actions workflow (runs at 6 AM and 6 PM WIB). Use this agent for emergency or on-demand deploys only.

**Use when**:

- Deploying immediately outside the scheduled workflow window
- Want to trigger Vercel rebuild on-demand
- Need to rollback production (force push older commit)

**Do NOT use for**:

- Making changes to content (use maker agents)
- Validating content (use checker agents)
- Local development builds

## Reference Documentation

**Project Guidance**:

- [CLAUDE.md](../../CLAUDE.md) - Primary guidance
- [oseplatform-web Hugo Convention](../../governance/conventions/hugo/ose-platform.md)
- [Trunk Based Development](../../governance/development/workflow/trunk-based-development.md)

**Related Agents**:

- `apps-oseplatform-web-content-checker` - Validates content before deployment

**Related Conventions**:

- [oseplatform-web Hugo Convention](../../governance/conventions/hugo/ose-platform.md)
- [Trunk Based Development](../../governance/development/workflow/trunk-based-development.md)
