apps/ose-platform-web/content/about.md, before:

---
title: "About OSE Platform"
url: "/about/"
summary: "Learn about the Open Sharia Enterprise Platform mission and goals"
---

# About Open Sharia Enterprise

Open Sharia Enterprise (OSE) Platform is an open-source platform for building Sharia-compliant enterprise solutions.

## The Opportunity

Islamic finance is a multi-trillion dollar industry growing at double-digit rates, creating massive demand for Sharia-compliant enterprise systems. While purpose-built platforms exist, they're typically proprietary and expensive. Many organizations still struggle with legacy systems retrofitted for Sharia compliance.

**The gap?** Accessible, open-source solutions with built-in compliance and radical transparency.

## Mission

Our mission is to democratize access to trustworthy, Sharia-compliant enterprise technology for organizations of all sizes, regardless of region or industry.

We're building an open-source platform with Sharia-compliance at its core—starting with Indonesian regulations and ERP foundations, expanding to fintech and global markets.

## Development Roadmap

### Phase 0: Setup and Research

Establishing the foundational infrastructure and conducting research:

- 🛠️ **Development Tooling & Processes** - Infrastructure, documentation framework, AI agents, planning system
- 🏗️ **Architecture & Design** - Monorepo architecture, core patterns, technology evaluation, security foundations
- 🤖 **AI Research** - AI/ML applications, LLM integration, intelligent automation
- 🔍 **Sharia Compliance Research** - Indonesian regulations (OJK, DSN-MUI, PBI, PDP)
- 🛡️ **Security & DevSecOps Research** - Information security frameworks, threat modeling, compliance as code
- ☁️ **Infrastructure Creation** - Cloud infrastructure, deployment pipelines, CI/CD setup

### Phase 1: ERP Foundation

Building a solid enterprise foundation with ERP capabilities:

- 💰 **Financial Management** - Accounting & finance, asset management, reporting & analytics with Sharia compliance
- 🔗 **Operations Management** - Supply chain (halal-compliant), inventory control, procurement & vendor management
- 👥 **People & Customer Management** - HR & payroll (Sharia-compliant), sales & CRM, customer relationships
- 🕌 **Execution & Compliance** - Project management, resource allocation, Sharia compliance framework

### Phase 2: Indonesian Fintech Integration

Expanding into fintech with Indonesian regulatory alignment:

- 🏦 **Regulatory Compliance** - Indonesian Banking Authority (OJK) and National Sharia Board (DSN-MUI) integration
- 📚 **Fintech Standards** - Indonesian best practices and implementation guidelines
- 📈 **Market Monitoring** - Fintech market trends, regulatory changes, and competitive landscape
- 💳 **Fintech Domain Implementation** - Payments, lending, and banking services

### Phase 3: Global Expansion

Extending the platform to support multiple jurisdictions:

- 🕌 **International Islamic finance standards** - Accounting (AAOIFI) and prudential (IFSB) standards
- 🌏 **Multi-jurisdiction compliance** for various countries and regions
- 📖 **Regional variations** in Sharia interpretations and requirements
- ✈️ **Cross-border enterprise operations** support

## Why This Approach?

- 🔬 **Research before building** - Phase 0 establishes foundations through compliance, security, and AI research before implementation
- 🇮🇩 **Indonesian market first** - Deep focus on local regulations (OJK, DSN-MUI, PBI, PDP) before global expansion
- 🏗️ **ERP as foundation** - Enterprise Resource Planning provides core infrastructure for all business operations
- 🕌 **Sharia-compliance from day one** - Built-in compliance architecture, not bolt-on features
- 🛡️ **Security by design** - DevSecOps and compliance-as-code integrated from the start
- 📈 **Scalable architecture** - Standards-based design enables extension to new regions
- ⚖️ **Gradual expansion** - Phased approach reduces complexity while ensuring quality

## Core Principles

- 🕌 **Sharia-compliance as a foundation** - Built in from the ground up, not bolted on later
- 🔓 **Transparency and openness** - Code transparency builds trust
- 🌐 **Open source by default** - Radical transparency unless it compromises security/privacy
- 🤖 **AI-assisted development** - Leverage AI systematically to enhance productivity
- 🤝 **Community collaboration** - Accelerate development of accessible tools
- 🛡️ **Governance and security from day one** - Essential for enterprise solutions

## Project Status

⚠️ **PRE-ALPHA** - This project is in early development and **NOT ready for production use**.

**Current Stage:**

- 🔨 Core infrastructure setup
- 📋 Project planning and architecture design
- 🏗️ Foundation patterns being established

**Not Yet Available:**

- ❌ No production code
- ❌ No stable APIs
- ❌ No security hardening
- ❌ Not accepting public contributions

## Technology

The tech stack for the main enterprise platform is currently being evaluated. Technology selection will follow our open-source and vendor-neutrality principles.

## License

This project is licensed under the **MIT License** - giving you complete freedom to use, modify, and distribute the code for any purpose, including commercial projects.

## Get Involved

While we're not accepting contributions during the pre-alpha phase, you're welcome to:

- ⭐ Star the project on [GitHub](https://github.com/wahidyankf/open-sharia-enterprise)
- 🍴 Fork the repository for your own use
- 📢 Share the project with your network
- 👀 Watch for updates and releases

## Related Projects

### AyoKoding

[**AyoKoding**](https://ayokoding.com) is our bilingual educational platform (Indonesian/English) for software engineering education. It serves the Indonesian tech community with tutorials, guides, and resources to help developers learn and grow.

- 🌐 Website: [ayokoding.com](https://ayokoding.com)
- 🎯 Mission: Democratize software engineering education for Indonesian developers
- 📚 Content: Tutorials, how-to guides, and technical resources in Indonesian and English

## Repository

Main repository: [open-sharia-enterprise](https://github.com/wahidyankf/open-sharia-enterprise)

Commit message:

docs: clarify current development phase as Phase 0
- Update Project Status in README.md to specify "Phase 0 (Setup and Research)"
- Update Project Status in ose-platform-web about page to match
- Add specific Phase 0 activities: Indonesian regulations research, security research, AI research
- Provides clear context on current project stage

apps/ose-platform-web/content/about.md, after:

---
title: "About OSE Platform"
url: "/about/"
summary: "Learn about the Open Sharia Enterprise Platform mission and goals"
---

# About Open Sharia Enterprise

Open Sharia Enterprise (OSE) Platform is an open-source platform for building Sharia-compliant enterprise solutions.

## The Opportunity

Islamic finance is a multi-trillion dollar industry growing at double-digit rates, creating massive demand for Sharia-compliant enterprise systems. While purpose-built platforms exist, they're typically proprietary and expensive. Many organizations still struggle with legacy systems retrofitted for Sharia compliance.

**The gap?** Accessible, open-source solutions with built-in compliance and radical transparency.

## Mission

Our mission is to democratize access to trustworthy, Sharia-compliant enterprise technology for organizations of all sizes, regardless of region or industry.

We're building an open-source platform with Sharia-compliance at its core—starting with Indonesian regulations and ERP foundations, expanding to fintech and global markets.

## Development Roadmap

### Phase 0: Setup and Research

Establishing the foundational infrastructure and conducting research:

- 🛠️ **Development Tooling & Processes** - Infrastructure, documentation framework, AI agents, planning system
- 🏗️ **Architecture & Design** - Monorepo architecture, core patterns, technology evaluation, security foundations
- 🤖 **AI Research** - AI/ML applications, LLM integration, intelligent automation
- 🔍 **Sharia Compliance Research** - Indonesian regulations (OJK, DSN-MUI, PBI, PDP)
- 🛡️ **Security & DevSecOps Research** - Information security frameworks, threat modeling, compliance as code
- ☁️ **Infrastructure Creation** - Cloud infrastructure, deployment pipelines, CI/CD setup

### Phase 1: ERP Foundation

Building a solid enterprise foundation with ERP capabilities:

- 💰 **Financial Management** - Accounting & finance, asset management, reporting & analytics with Sharia compliance
- 🔗 **Operations Management** - Supply chain (halal-compliant), inventory control, procurement & vendor management
- 👥 **People & Customer Management** - HR & payroll (Sharia-compliant), sales & CRM, customer relationships
- 🕌 **Execution & Compliance** - Project management, resource allocation, Sharia compliance framework

### Phase 2: Indonesian Fintech Integration

Expanding into fintech with Indonesian regulatory alignment:

- 🏦 **Regulatory Compliance** - Indonesian Banking Authority (OJK) and National Sharia Board (DSN-MUI) integration
- 📚 **Fintech Standards** - Indonesian best practices and implementation guidelines
- 📈 **Market Monitoring** - Fintech market trends, regulatory changes, and competitive landscape
- 💳 **Fintech Domain Implementation** - Payments, lending, and banking services

### Phase 3: Global Expansion

Extending the platform to support multiple jurisdictions:

- 🕌 **International Islamic finance standards** - Accounting (AAOIFI) and prudential (IFSB) standards
- 🌏 **Multi-jurisdiction compliance** for various countries and regions
- 📖 **Regional variations** in Sharia interpretations and requirements
- ✈️ **Cross-border enterprise operations** support

## Why This Approach?

- 🔬 **Research before building** - Phase 0 establishes foundations through compliance, security, and AI research before implementation
- 🇮🇩 **Indonesian market first** - Deep focus on local regulations (OJK, DSN-MUI, PBI, PDP) before global expansion
- 🏗️ **ERP as foundation** - Enterprise Resource Planning provides core infrastructure for all business operations
- 🕌 **Sharia-compliance from day one** - Built-in compliance architecture, not bolt-on features
- 🛡️ **Security by design** - DevSecOps and compliance-as-code integrated from the start
- 📈 **Scalable architecture** - Standards-based design enables extension to new regions
- ⚖️ **Gradual expansion** - Phased approach reduces complexity while ensuring quality

## Core Principles

- 🕌 **Sharia-compliance as a foundation** - Built in from the ground up, not bolted on later
- 🔓 **Transparency and openness** - Code transparency builds trust
- 🌐 **Open source by default** - Radical transparency unless it compromises security/privacy
- 🤖 **AI-assisted development** - Leverage AI systematically to enhance productivity
- 🤝 **Community collaboration** - Accelerate development of accessible tools
- 🛡️ **Governance and security from day one** - Essential for enterprise solutions

## Project Status

⚠️ **PRE-ALPHA** - This project is in early development and **NOT ready for production use**.

**Current Phase: Phase 0 (Setup and Research)**

We are establishing foundational infrastructure and conducting research to inform architectural decisions:

- 🔨 Core infrastructure setup
- 📋 Project planning and architecture design
- 🏗️ Foundation patterns being established
- 🔍 Researching Indonesian regulations (OJK, DSN-MUI, PBI, PDP)
- 🛡️ Security and DevSecOps research
- 🤖 AI research and integration exploration

**Not Yet Available:**

- ❌ No production code
- ❌ No stable APIs
- ❌ No security hardening
- ❌ Not accepting public contributions

## Technology

The tech stack for the main enterprise platform is currently being evaluated. Technology selection will follow our open-source and vendor-neutrality principles.

## License

This project is licensed under the **MIT License** - giving you complete freedom to use, modify, and distribute the code for any purpose, including commercial projects.

## Get Involved

While we're not accepting contributions during the pre-alpha phase, you're welcome to:

- ⭐ Star the project on [GitHub](https://github.com/wahidyankf/open-sharia-enterprise)
- 🍴 Fork the repository for your own use
- 📢 Share the project with your network
- 👀 Watch for updates and releases

## Related Projects

### AyoKoding

[**AyoKoding**](https://ayokoding.com) is our bilingual educational platform (Indonesian/English) for software engineering education. It serves the Indonesian tech community with tutorials, guides, and resources to help developers learn and grow.

- 🌐 Website: [ayokoding.com](https://ayokoding.com)
- 🎯 Mission: Democratize software engineering education for Indonesian developers
- 📚 Content: Tutorials, how-to guides, and technical resources in Indonesian and English

## Repository

Main repository: [open-sharia-enterprise](https://github.com/wahidyankf/open-sharia-enterprise)
