docs/explanation/conventions/ex-co__diagrams.md, before:

---
title: "Diagram and Schema Convention"
description: Standards for using Mermaid diagrams and ASCII art in open-sharia-enterprise markdown files
category: explanation
tags:
  - diagrams
  - mermaid
  - ascii-art
  - visualization
  - conventions
created: 2025-11-24
updated: 2025-11-24
---

# Diagram and Schema Convention

This document defines when and how to use different diagram formats in the open-sharia-enterprise project. Understanding the appropriate format for each context ensures diagrams render consistently across all platforms where our documentation is viewed.

## The Core Principle

The choice between Mermaid diagrams and ASCII art depends on **where the file lives** and **who will read it**:

- **Inside `docs/` directory**: Use Mermaid diagrams for rich, native rendering in Obsidian
- **Outside `docs/` directory**: Use ASCII art for maximum compatibility across all platforms

## Why This Matters

Different tools render diagrams differently. By following location-based conventions, we ensure diagrams always display correctly regardless of where they're viewed.

### Obsidian Vault Context

The `docs/` directory is our Obsidian vault - a rich markdown environment with native Mermaid support. Obsidian users expect beautiful, interactive diagrams that take full advantage of the tool's capabilities.

### Universal Compatibility Context

Files like `README.md`, `CLAUDE.md`, and other root-level documentation are viewed across diverse platforms: GitHub web interface, text editors, terminals, mobile apps, and CI/CD logs. ASCII art renders consistently everywhere without requiring special rendering support.

## Mermaid Diagrams: For `docs/` Directory

### When to Use

Use Mermaid diagrams for **all files inside the `docs/` directory**:

```
docs/
├── tutorials/          ← Use Mermaid
├── how-to/            ← Use Mermaid
├── reference/         ← Use Mermaid
├── explanation/       ← Use Mermaid
└── journals/          ← Use Mermaid
```

### Why Mermaid?

1. **Native Rendering** - Obsidian renders Mermaid natively without plugins
2. **Rich Visuals** - Professional-looking diagrams with colors, shapes, and styling
3. **Interactive** - Diagrams can be zoomed and inspected
4. **Maintainable** - Text-based source is easy to version control and edit
5. **Powerful** - Supports flowcharts, sequence diagrams, class diagrams, entity relationships, state diagrams, and more

### Mermaid Syntax

Mermaid diagrams are defined in code blocks with the `mermaid` language identifier:

````markdown
```mermaid
graph TD
    A[Start] --> B{Decision}
    B -->|Yes| C[Action 1]
    B -->|No| D[Action 2]
    C --> E[End]
    D --> E
```
````

### Common Mermaid Diagram Types

#### Flowchart

Perfect for processes, workflows, and decision trees:

````markdown
```mermaid
flowchart LR
    A[User Request] --> B{Authenticated?}
    B -->|Yes| C[Process Request]
    B -->|No| D[Return 401]
    C --> E[Return Response]
```
````

```mermaid
flowchart LR
    A[User Request] --> B{Authenticated?}
    B -->|Yes| C[Process Request]
    B -->|No| D[Return 401]
    C --> E[Return Response]
```

#### Sequence Diagram

Shows interactions between components over time:

````markdown
```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant Client
    participant API
    participant Database

    Client->>API: POST /transactions
    API->>Database: Save transaction
    Database-->>API: Confirmation
    API-->>Client: 201 Created
```
````

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant Client
    participant API
    participant Database

    Client->>API: POST /transactions
    API->>Database: Save transaction
    Database-->>API: Confirmation
    API-->>Client: 201 Created
```

#### Class Diagram

Represents object-oriented structures and relationships:

````markdown
```mermaid
classDiagram
    class Transaction {
        +String id
        +BigDecimal amount
        +Date timestamp
        +validate()
        +execute()
    }

    class Account {
        +String id
        +BigDecimal balance
        +debit()
        +credit()
    }

    Transaction --> Account : involves
```
````

```mermaid
classDiagram
    class Transaction {
        +String id
        +BigDecimal amount
        +Date timestamp
        +validate()
        +execute()
    }

    class Account {
        +String id
        +BigDecimal balance
        +debit()
        +credit()
    }

    Transaction --> Account : involves
```

#### Entity Relationship Diagram

Shows database schema relationships:

````markdown
```mermaid
erDiagram
    CUSTOMER ||--o{ ACCOUNT : owns
    ACCOUNT ||--o{ TRANSACTION : contains
    TRANSACTION }o--|| TRANSACTION_TYPE : has

    CUSTOMER {
        string id PK
        string name
        string email
    }

    ACCOUNT {
        string id PK
        string customer_id FK
        decimal balance
    }
```
````

```mermaid
erDiagram
    CUSTOMER ||--o{ ACCOUNT : owns
    ACCOUNT ||--o{ TRANSACTION : contains
    TRANSACTION }o--|| TRANSACTION_TYPE : has

    CUSTOMER {
        string id PK
        string name
        string email
    }

    ACCOUNT {
        string id PK
        string customer_id FK
        decimal balance
    }
```

#### State Diagram

Illustrates state transitions in systems:

````markdown
```mermaid
stateDiagram-v2
    [*] --> Pending
    Pending --> Processing : start
    Processing --> Completed : success
    Processing --> Failed : error
    Failed --> Pending : retry
    Completed --> [*]
```
````

```mermaid
stateDiagram-v2
    [*] --> Pending
    Pending --> Processing : start
    Processing --> Completed : success
    Processing --> Failed : error
    Failed --> Pending : retry
    Completed --> [*]
```

#### Git Graph

Shows branch and merge history:

````markdown
```mermaid
gitGraph
    commit
    branch develop
    checkout develop
    commit
    checkout main
    merge develop
    commit
```
````

```mermaid
gitGraph
    commit
    branch develop
    checkout develop
    commit
    checkout main
    merge develop
    commit
```

### Mermaid Best Practices

1. **Keep it Simple** - Complex diagrams become hard to maintain
2. **Use Descriptive Labels** - Clear node names improve readability
3. **Add Comments** - Explain complex logic with inline comments
4. **Test Rendering** - Preview in Obsidian before committing
5. **Version Control Friendly** - Use consistent formatting for easier diffs

### Mermaid Resources

- [Official Mermaid Documentation](https://mermaid.js.org/)
- [Mermaid Live Editor](https://mermaid.live/) - Test diagrams online
- [Obsidian Mermaid Docs](https://help.obsidian.md/Editing+and+formatting/Advanced+formatting+syntax#Diagram)

## ASCII Art: For Files Outside `docs/`

### When to Use

Use ASCII art for **all files outside the `docs/` directory**:

```
open-sharia-enterprise/
├── README.md          ← Use ASCII art
├── CLAUDE.md          ← Use ASCII art
├── CONTRIBUTING.md    ← Use ASCII art
├── .github/
│   └── *.md          ← Use ASCII art
└── docs/             ← Use Mermaid (see above)
```

### Why ASCII Art?

1. **Universal Compatibility** - Renders identically everywhere (GitHub, terminals, text editors)
2. **No Dependencies** - No special rendering engines required
3. **Predictable** - WYSIWYG - what you type is what everyone sees
4. **Lightweight** - Fast to load, minimal bandwidth
5. **Accessible** - Screen readers and text-based browsers handle it well

### ASCII Art Use Cases

#### Directory Structure

Perfect for showing file and folder hierarchies:

```
open-sharia-enterprise/
├── .claude/                   # Claude Code configuration
│   └── agents/               # Specialized AI agents
├── docs/                      # Documentation (Diátaxis framework)
│   ├── tutorials/            # Learning-oriented guides
│   ├── how-to/               # Problem-oriented guides
│   ├── reference/            # Technical reference
│   └── explanation/          # Conceptual documentation
├── src/                       # Source code
├── package.json              # Node.js manifest
└── README.md                 # Project README
```

#### Simple Diagrams

Basic flowcharts and relationships:

```
┌─────────────┐
│   Request   │
└──────┬──────┘
       │
       ▼
┌─────────────┐     ┌─────────────┐
│ Validation  │────▶│   Process   │
└─────────────┘     └──────┬──────┘
                           │
                           ▼
                    ┌─────────────┐
                    │  Response   │
                    └─────────────┘
```

#### Process Flow

Sequential steps with connectors:

```
User Action
    │
    ├──▶ Authentication Check
    │        │
    │        ├─ Success ──▶ Process Request ──▶ Return Result
    │        │
    │        └─ Failure ──▶ Return 401
    │
    └──▶ Log Event
```

#### Component Relationships

System architecture overview:

```
┌──────────────────────────────────────┐
│           Frontend (React)           │
└────────────┬─────────────────────────┘
             │
             ▼
┌──────────────────────────────────────┐
│         API Gateway (Express)        │
└─────┬──────────────┬─────────────────┘
      │              │
      ▼              ▼
┌─────────┐    ┌─────────────┐
│ Auth    │    │  Business   │
│ Service │    │  Logic      │
└─────────┘    └──────┬──────┘
                      │
                      ▼
               ┌─────────────┐
               │  Database   │
               └─────────────┘
```

#### Tables and Matrices

Structured data representation:

```
┌──────────────┬────────────┬──────────────┐
│   Category   │   Prefix   │   Example    │
├──────────────┼────────────┼──────────────┤
│  Tutorials   │    tu__    │  tu__start.md│
│  How-To      │    ht__    │  ht__api.md  │
│  Reference   │    re__    │  re__spec.md │
│  Explanation │    ex__    │  ex__arch.md │
└──────────────┴────────────┴──────────────┘
```

### ASCII Art Best Practices

1. **Use Box-Drawing Characters** - `┌─┐│└┘├┤┬┴┼` for clean borders
2. **Consistent Spacing** - Align elements for better readability
3. **Test in Monospace** - Verify rendering in fixed-width fonts
4. **Keep it Simple** - Complex ASCII art is hard to maintain
5. **Comment Structure** - Add text labels for clarity

### ASCII Art Character Sets

Common characters for drawing:

```
Box Drawing:
┌ ┬ ┐   ╔ ╦ ╗
├ ┼ ┤   ╠ ╬ ╣
└ ┴ ┘   ╚ ╩ ╝
─ │     ═ ║

Arrows:
→ ← ↑ ↓ ↔ ↕
▶ ◀ ▲ ▼

Connectors:
┬ ┴ ├ ┤ ┼
╭ ╮ ╰ ╯
```

### ASCII Art Tools

- Manual creation in text editor with monospace font
- Online generators (limited utility)
- Terminal tools like `figlet` for text banners

## Decision Matrix

Use this quick reference to choose the right format:

| File Location     | Use         | Reason                                  |
| ----------------- | ----------- | --------------------------------------- |
| `docs/**/*.md`    | **Mermaid** | Native Obsidian rendering, rich visuals |
| `README.md`       | **ASCII**   | GitHub web, terminal, universal access  |
| `CLAUDE.md`       | **ASCII**   | AI agents, text editors, terminals      |
| `.github/**/*.md` | **ASCII**   | GitHub Actions logs, PR reviews         |
| `CONTRIBUTING.md` | **ASCII**   | First-time contributors, all platforms  |

## Examples in Context

### Example 1: API Flow in Documentation

**File**: `docs/explanation/architecture/ex-ar__request-flow.md`

**Use Mermaid**:

````markdown
## Request Processing Flow

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant Client
    participant Gateway
    participant Auth
    participant Business
    participant Database

    Client->>Gateway: HTTP Request
    Gateway->>Auth: Validate Token
    Auth-->>Gateway: Token Valid
    Gateway->>Business: Process Request
    Business->>Database: Query Data
    Database-->>Business: Result
    Business-->>Gateway: Response
    Gateway-->>Client: HTTP Response
```
````

### Example 2: Project Structure in README

**File**: `README.md`

**Use ASCII Art**:

```markdown
## Project Structure
```

open-sharia-enterprise/
├── .claude/ # Claude Code configuration
├── docs/ # Documentation
│ ├── tutorials/ # Step-by-step guides
│ ├── how-to/ # Problem solutions
│ ├── reference/ # Technical specs
│ └── explanation/ # Concepts
├── src/ # Source code
└── package.json # Dependencies

```

```

### Example 3: State Machine in Tutorial

**File**: `docs/tutorials/transactions/tu-tr__transaction-lifecycle.md`

**Use Mermaid**:

````markdown
## Transaction States

```mermaid
stateDiagram-v2
    [*] --> Draft
    Draft --> Submitted : submit()
    Submitted --> UnderReview : auto
    UnderReview --> Approved : approve()
    UnderReview --> Rejected : reject()
    Approved --> Completed : process()
    Rejected --> [*]
    Completed --> [*]
```
````

### Example 4: Component Architecture in CLAUDE.md

**File**: `CLAUDE.md`

**Use ASCII Art**:

```markdown
## Agent Architecture
```

┌──────────────────────────────────────┐
│ Claude Code (Main Agent) │
└────────────┬─────────────────────────┘
│
├──▶ doc-writer.md (Documentation)
│
├──▶ repo-rule-checker.md (Validation)
│
└──▶ repo-rule-updater.md (Propagation)

```

```

## Mixing Formats (Avoid)

**Don't mix formats within a single context**. If your file is in `docs/`, use Mermaid consistently. If outside `docs/`, use ASCII art throughout.

❌ **Bad** (mixing in `docs/explanation/ex-ar__system.md`):

````markdown
```mermaid
graph TD
    A --> B
```

```
A --> B
```
````

✅ **Good** (consistent Mermaid in `docs/`):

````markdown
```mermaid
graph TD
    A --> B
```

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    A->>B: Request
```
````

## Migration Strategy

### Converting ASCII to Mermaid

When moving diagrams from root files to `docs/`:

1. Identify the diagram type (flowchart, sequence, etc.)
2. Use appropriate Mermaid syntax
3. Test rendering in Obsidian
4. Verify all relationships preserved

**Before** (`README.md`):

```
A → B → C
```

**After** (`docs/explanation/ex-ar__flow.md`):

````markdown
```mermaid
graph LR
    A --> B --> C
```
````

### Converting Mermaid to ASCII

When moving diagrams from `docs/` to root files:

1. Simplify complex relationships
2. Use box-drawing characters
3. Test in plain text editor
4. Verify readability in terminal

**Before** (`docs/tutorials/tu__flow.md`):

````markdown
```mermaid
graph TD
    A[Start] --> B[Process]
    B --> C[End]
```
````

**After** (`README.md`):

```
┌───────┐
│ Start │
└───┬───┘
    │
    ▼
┌─────────┐
│ Process │
└────┬────┘
     │
     ▼
┌─────┐
│ End │
└─────┘
```

## Verification Checklist

Before committing documentation with diagrams:

- [ ] File location determines format (Mermaid in `docs/`, ASCII elsewhere)
- [ ] Mermaid diagrams tested in Obsidian preview
- [ ] ASCII art verified in monospace font
- [ ] No format mixing within single file
- [ ] All labels and text are clear and readable
- [ ] Complex diagrams simplified where possible
- [ ] Diagram serves the documentation purpose

## Related Documentation

- [File Naming Convention](./ex-co__file-naming-convention.md) - How to name documentation files
- [Linking Convention](./ex-co__linking-convention.md) - How to link between files
- [Diátaxis Framework](./ex-co__diataxis-framework.md) - Documentation organization principles
- [Conventions Index](./README.md) - Overview of all conventions

## External Resources

- [Mermaid Official Documentation](https://mermaid.js.org/)
- [Mermaid Live Editor](https://mermaid.live/)
- [ASCII Art Generator](https://www.asciiart.eu/)
- [Box Drawing Unicode Characters](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Box-drawing_character)

---

**Last Updated**: 2025-11-24

Commit message:

feat(plans): add plans folder for project planning
Add new plans/ folder at repository root for organizing project
planning documents across three lifecycle stages.

Structure:
- plans/in-progress/ - Active project plans
- plans/backlog/ - Planned projects for future implementation
- plans/done/ - Completed and archived plans

Each plan follows YYYY-MM-DD__[project-identifier]/ naming
pattern and contains:
- README.md - Plan overview
- requirements.md - Requirements and objectives
- tech-docs.md - Technical documentation
- delivery.md - Timeline and milestones

Documentation updates:
- Updated CLAUDE.md with Plans Organization section
- Updated diagram convention (plans/ uses ASCII art)
- Updated doc-writer and repo-rule-checker agents
- Updated README.md project structure

Plans folder is a working documents directory (temporary),
distinct from permanent documentation in docs/.

docs/explanation/conventions/ex-co__diagrams.md, after:

---
title: "Diagram and Schema Convention"
description: Standards for using Mermaid diagrams and ASCII art in open-sharia-enterprise markdown files
category: explanation
tags:
  - diagrams
  - mermaid
  - ascii-art
  - visualization
  - conventions
created: 2025-11-24
updated: 2025-11-24
---

# Diagram and Schema Convention

This document defines when and how to use different diagram formats in the open-sharia-enterprise project. Understanding the appropriate format for each context ensures diagrams render consistently across all platforms where our documentation is viewed.

## The Core Principle

The choice between Mermaid diagrams and ASCII art depends on **where the file lives** and **who will read it**:

- **Inside `docs/` directory**: Use Mermaid diagrams for rich, native rendering in Obsidian
- **Outside `docs/` directory**: Use ASCII art for maximum compatibility across all platforms

## Why This Matters

Different tools render diagrams differently. By following location-based conventions, we ensure diagrams always display correctly regardless of where they're viewed.

### Obsidian Vault Context

The `docs/` directory is our Obsidian vault - a rich markdown environment with native Mermaid support. Obsidian users expect beautiful, interactive diagrams that take full advantage of the tool's capabilities.

### Universal Compatibility Context

Files like `README.md`, `CLAUDE.md`, and other root-level documentation are viewed across diverse platforms: GitHub web interface, text editors, terminals, mobile apps, and CI/CD logs. ASCII art renders consistently everywhere without requiring special rendering support.

## Mermaid Diagrams: For `docs/` Directory

### When to Use

Use Mermaid diagrams for **all files inside the `docs/` directory**:

```
docs/
├── tutorials/          ← Use Mermaid
├── how-to/            ← Use Mermaid
├── reference/         ← Use Mermaid
├── explanation/       ← Use Mermaid
└── journals/          ← Use Mermaid
```

### Why Mermaid?

1. **Native Rendering** - Obsidian renders Mermaid natively without plugins
2. **Rich Visuals** - Professional-looking diagrams with colors, shapes, and styling
3. **Interactive** - Diagrams can be zoomed and inspected
4. **Maintainable** - Text-based source is easy to version control and edit
5. **Powerful** - Supports flowcharts, sequence diagrams, class diagrams, entity relationships, state diagrams, and more

### Mermaid Syntax

Mermaid diagrams are defined in code blocks with the `mermaid` language identifier:

````markdown
```mermaid
graph TD
    A[Start] --> B{Decision}
    B -->|Yes| C[Action 1]
    B -->|No| D[Action 2]
    C --> E[End]
    D --> E
```
````

### Common Mermaid Diagram Types

#### Flowchart

Perfect for processes, workflows, and decision trees:

````markdown
```mermaid
flowchart LR
    A[User Request] --> B{Authenticated?}
    B -->|Yes| C[Process Request]
    B -->|No| D[Return 401]
    C --> E[Return Response]
```
````

```mermaid
flowchart LR
    A[User Request] --> B{Authenticated?}
    B -->|Yes| C[Process Request]
    B -->|No| D[Return 401]
    C --> E[Return Response]
```

#### Sequence Diagram

Shows interactions between components over time:

````markdown
```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant Client
    participant API
    participant Database

    Client->>API: POST /transactions
    API->>Database: Save transaction
    Database-->>API: Confirmation
    API-->>Client: 201 Created
```
````

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant Client
    participant API
    participant Database

    Client->>API: POST /transactions
    API->>Database: Save transaction
    Database-->>API: Confirmation
    API-->>Client: 201 Created
```

#### Class Diagram

Represents object-oriented structures and relationships:

````markdown
```mermaid
classDiagram
    class Transaction {
        +String id
        +BigDecimal amount
        +Date timestamp
        +validate()
        +execute()
    }

    class Account {
        +String id
        +BigDecimal balance
        +debit()
        +credit()
    }

    Transaction --> Account : involves
```
````

```mermaid
classDiagram
    class Transaction {
        +String id
        +BigDecimal amount
        +Date timestamp
        +validate()
        +execute()
    }

    class Account {
        +String id
        +BigDecimal balance
        +debit()
        +credit()
    }

    Transaction --> Account : involves
```

#### Entity Relationship Diagram

Shows database schema relationships:

````markdown
```mermaid
erDiagram
    CUSTOMER ||--o{ ACCOUNT : owns
    ACCOUNT ||--o{ TRANSACTION : contains
    TRANSACTION }o--|| TRANSACTION_TYPE : has

    CUSTOMER {
        string id PK
        string name
        string email
    }

    ACCOUNT {
        string id PK
        string customer_id FK
        decimal balance
    }
```
````

```mermaid
erDiagram
    CUSTOMER ||--o{ ACCOUNT : owns
    ACCOUNT ||--o{ TRANSACTION : contains
    TRANSACTION }o--|| TRANSACTION_TYPE : has

    CUSTOMER {
        string id PK
        string name
        string email
    }

    ACCOUNT {
        string id PK
        string customer_id FK
        decimal balance
    }
```

#### State Diagram

Illustrates state transitions in systems:

````markdown
```mermaid
stateDiagram-v2
    [*] --> Pending
    Pending --> Processing : start
    Processing --> Completed : success
    Processing --> Failed : error
    Failed --> Pending : retry
    Completed --> [*]
```
````

```mermaid
stateDiagram-v2
    [*] --> Pending
    Pending --> Processing : start
    Processing --> Completed : success
    Processing --> Failed : error
    Failed --> Pending : retry
    Completed --> [*]
```

#### Git Graph

Shows branch and merge history:

````markdown
```mermaid
gitGraph
    commit
    branch develop
    checkout develop
    commit
    checkout main
    merge develop
    commit
```
````

```mermaid
gitGraph
    commit
    branch develop
    checkout develop
    commit
    checkout main
    merge develop
    commit
```

### Mermaid Best Practices

1. **Keep it Simple** - Complex diagrams become hard to maintain
2. **Use Descriptive Labels** - Clear node names improve readability
3. **Add Comments** - Explain complex logic with inline comments
4. **Test Rendering** - Preview in Obsidian before committing
5. **Version Control Friendly** - Use consistent formatting for easier diffs

### Mermaid Resources

- [Official Mermaid Documentation](https://mermaid.js.org/)
- [Mermaid Live Editor](https://mermaid.live/) - Test diagrams online
- [Obsidian Mermaid Docs](https://help.obsidian.md/Editing+and+formatting/Advanced+formatting+syntax#Diagram)

## ASCII Art: For Files Outside `docs/`

### When to Use

Use ASCII art for **all files outside the `docs/` directory**:

```
open-sharia-enterprise/
├── README.md          ← Use ASCII art
├── CLAUDE.md          ← Use ASCII art
├── CONTRIBUTING.md    ← Use ASCII art
├── plans/            ← Use ASCII art
│   ├── in-progress/
│   ├── backlog/
│   └── done/
├── .github/
│   └── *.md          ← Use ASCII art
└── docs/             ← Use Mermaid (see above)
```

### Why ASCII Art?

1. **Universal Compatibility** - Renders identically everywhere (GitHub, terminals, text editors)
2. **No Dependencies** - No special rendering engines required
3. **Predictable** - WYSIWYG - what you type is what everyone sees
4. **Lightweight** - Fast to load, minimal bandwidth
5. **Accessible** - Screen readers and text-based browsers handle it well

### Important: Plans Folder

The `plans/` folder is located at the repository root (NOT inside `docs/`) and contains temporary project planning documents. Since it's outside the Obsidian vault, **all files within `plans/` must use ASCII art** for any diagrams or schemas.

This applies to:

- `plans/in-progress/*/README.md`
- `plans/in-progress/*/requirements.md`
- `plans/in-progress/*/tech-docs.md`
- `plans/in-progress/*/delivery.md`
- And equivalent files in `plans/backlog/` and `plans/done/`

**Rationale**: The `plans/` folder is a root-level working documents folder (like `.claude/`, `.husky/`). It is NOT part of the Obsidian vault (`docs/`). ASCII art ensures universal compatibility for files outside the documentation vault, maintaining consistency with other root-level files.

### ASCII Art Use Cases

#### Directory Structure

Perfect for showing file and folder hierarchies:

```
open-sharia-enterprise/
├── .claude/                   # Claude Code configuration
│   └── agents/               # Specialized AI agents
├── docs/                      # Documentation (Diátaxis framework)
│   ├── tutorials/            # Learning-oriented guides
│   ├── how-to/               # Problem-oriented guides
│   ├── reference/            # Technical reference
│   └── explanation/          # Conceptual documentation
├── src/                       # Source code
├── package.json              # Node.js manifest
└── README.md                 # Project README
```

#### Simple Diagrams

Basic flowcharts and relationships:

```
┌─────────────┐
│   Request   │
└──────┬──────┘
       │
       ▼
┌─────────────┐     ┌─────────────┐
│ Validation  │────▶│   Process   │
└─────────────┘     └──────┬──────┘
                           │
                           ▼
                    ┌─────────────┐
                    │  Response   │
                    └─────────────┘
```

#### Process Flow

Sequential steps with connectors:

```
User Action
    │
    ├──▶ Authentication Check
    │        │
    │        ├─ Success ──▶ Process Request ──▶ Return Result
    │        │
    │        └─ Failure ──▶ Return 401
    │
    └──▶ Log Event
```

#### Component Relationships

System architecture overview:

```
┌──────────────────────────────────────┐
│           Frontend (React)           │
└────────────┬─────────────────────────┘
             │
             ▼
┌──────────────────────────────────────┐
│         API Gateway (Express)        │
└─────┬──────────────┬─────────────────┘
      │              │
      ▼              ▼
┌─────────┐    ┌─────────────┐
│ Auth    │    │  Business   │
│ Service │    │  Logic      │
└─────────┘    └──────┬──────┘
                      │
                      ▼
               ┌─────────────┐
               │  Database   │
               └─────────────┘
```

#### Tables and Matrices

Structured data representation:

```
┌──────────────┬────────────┬──────────────┐
│   Category   │   Prefix   │   Example    │
├──────────────┼────────────┼──────────────┤
│  Tutorials   │    tu__    │  tu__start.md│
│  How-To      │    ht__    │  ht__api.md  │
│  Reference   │    re__    │  re__spec.md │
│  Explanation │    ex__    │  ex__arch.md │
└──────────────┴────────────┴──────────────┘
```

### ASCII Art Best Practices

1. **Use Box-Drawing Characters** - `┌─┐│└┘├┤┬┴┼` for clean borders
2. **Consistent Spacing** - Align elements for better readability
3. **Test in Monospace** - Verify rendering in fixed-width fonts
4. **Keep it Simple** - Complex ASCII art is hard to maintain
5. **Comment Structure** - Add text labels for clarity

### ASCII Art Character Sets

Common characters for drawing:

```
Box Drawing:
┌ ┬ ┐   ╔ ╦ ╗
├ ┼ ┤   ╠ ╬ ╣
└ ┴ ┘   ╚ ╩ ╝
─ │     ═ ║

Arrows:
→ ← ↑ ↓ ↔ ↕
▶ ◀ ▲ ▼

Connectors:
┬ ┴ ├ ┤ ┼
╭ ╮ ╰ ╯
```

### ASCII Art Tools

- Manual creation in text editor with monospace font
- Online generators (limited utility)
- Terminal tools like `figlet` for text banners

## Decision Matrix

Use this quick reference to choose the right format:

| File Location     | Use         | Reason                                  |
| ----------------- | ----------- | --------------------------------------- |
| `docs/**/*.md`    | **Mermaid** | Native Obsidian rendering, rich visuals |
| `README.md`       | **ASCII**   | GitHub web, terminal, universal access  |
| `CLAUDE.md`       | **ASCII**   | AI agents, text editors, terminals      |
| `plans/**/*.md`   | **ASCII**   | Working documents, universal access     |
| `.github/**/*.md` | **ASCII**   | GitHub Actions logs, PR reviews         |
| `CONTRIBUTING.md` | **ASCII**   | First-time contributors, all platforms  |

## Examples in Context

### Example 1: API Flow in Documentation

**File**: `docs/explanation/architecture/ex-ar__request-flow.md`

**Use Mermaid**:

````markdown
## Request Processing Flow

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant Client
    participant Gateway
    participant Auth
    participant Business
    participant Database

    Client->>Gateway: HTTP Request
    Gateway->>Auth: Validate Token
    Auth-->>Gateway: Token Valid
    Gateway->>Business: Process Request
    Business->>Database: Query Data
    Database-->>Business: Result
    Business-->>Gateway: Response
    Gateway-->>Client: HTTP Response
```
````

### Example 2: Project Structure in README

**File**: `README.md`

**Use ASCII Art**:

```markdown
## Project Structure
```

open-sharia-enterprise/
├── .claude/ # Claude Code configuration
├── docs/ # Documentation
│ ├── tutorials/ # Step-by-step guides
│ ├── how-to/ # Problem solutions
│ ├── reference/ # Technical specs
│ └── explanation/ # Concepts
├── src/ # Source code
└── package.json # Dependencies

```

```

### Example 3: State Machine in Tutorial

**File**: `docs/tutorials/transactions/tu-tr__transaction-lifecycle.md`

**Use Mermaid**:

````markdown
## Transaction States

```mermaid
stateDiagram-v2
    [*] --> Draft
    Draft --> Submitted : submit()
    Submitted --> UnderReview : auto
    UnderReview --> Approved : approve()
    UnderReview --> Rejected : reject()
    Approved --> Completed : process()
    Rejected --> [*]
    Completed --> [*]
```
````

### Example 4: Component Architecture in CLAUDE.md

**File**: `CLAUDE.md`

**Use ASCII Art**:

```markdown
## Agent Architecture
```

┌──────────────────────────────────────┐
│ Claude Code (Main Agent) │
└────────────┬─────────────────────────┘
│
├──▶ doc-writer.md (Documentation)
│
├──▶ repo-rule-checker.md (Validation)
│
└──▶ repo-rule-updater.md (Propagation)

```

```

## Mixing Formats (Avoid)

**Don't mix formats within a single context**. If your file is in `docs/`, use Mermaid consistently. If outside `docs/`, use ASCII art throughout.

❌ **Bad** (mixing in `docs/explanation/ex-ar__system.md`):

````markdown
```mermaid
graph TD
    A --> B
```

```
A --> B
```
````

✅ **Good** (consistent Mermaid in `docs/`):

````markdown
```mermaid
graph TD
    A --> B
```

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    A->>B: Request
```
````

## Migration Strategy

### Converting ASCII to Mermaid

When moving diagrams from root files to `docs/`:

1. Identify the diagram type (flowchart, sequence, etc.)
2. Use appropriate Mermaid syntax
3. Test rendering in Obsidian
4. Verify all relationships preserved

**Before** (`README.md`):

```
A → B → C
```

**After** (`docs/explanation/ex-ar__flow.md`):

````markdown
```mermaid
graph LR
    A --> B --> C
```
````

### Converting Mermaid to ASCII

When moving diagrams from `docs/` to root files:

1. Simplify complex relationships
2. Use box-drawing characters
3. Test in plain text editor
4. Verify readability in terminal

**Before** (`docs/tutorials/tu__flow.md`):

````markdown
```mermaid
graph TD
    A[Start] --> B[Process]
    B --> C[End]
```
````

**After** (`README.md`):

```
┌───────┐
│ Start │
└───┬───┘
    │
    ▼
┌─────────┐
│ Process │
└────┬────┘
     │
     ▼
┌─────┐
│ End │
└─────┘
```

## Verification Checklist

Before committing documentation with diagrams:

- [ ] File location determines format (Mermaid in `docs/`, ASCII elsewhere)
- [ ] Mermaid diagrams tested in Obsidian preview
- [ ] ASCII art verified in monospace font
- [ ] No format mixing within single file
- [ ] All labels and text are clear and readable
- [ ] Complex diagrams simplified where possible
- [ ] Diagram serves the documentation purpose

## Related Documentation

- [File Naming Convention](./ex-co__file-naming-convention.md) - How to name documentation files
- [Linking Convention](./ex-co__linking-convention.md) - How to link between files
- [Diátaxis Framework](./ex-co__diataxis-framework.md) - Documentation organization principles
- [Conventions Index](./README.md) - Overview of all conventions

## External Resources

- [Mermaid Official Documentation](https://mermaid.js.org/)
- [Mermaid Live Editor](https://mermaid.live/)
- [ASCII Art Generator](https://www.asciiart.eu/)
- [Box Drawing Unicode Characters](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Box-drawing_character)

---

**Last Updated**: 2025-11-24
