governance/development/agents/anti-patterns.md, before:

# Anti-Patterns in AI Agents Development

> **Companion Document**: For positive guidance on what to do, see [Best Practices](./best-practices.md)

## Overview

Understanding common mistakes in AI agent development helps teams build more maintainable, secure, and effective automation. These anti-patterns cause complexity, security risks, and maintenance burden.

## Purpose

This document provides:

- Common anti-patterns in agent development
- Examples of problematic implementations
- Solutions and corrections for each anti-pattern
- Security and maintenance considerations

## Common Anti-Patterns

### Anti-Pattern 1: God Agent

**Problem**: Single agent tries to handle too many responsibilities.

**Bad Example:**

```yaml
---
name: super-agent
description: Validates docs, creates content, deploys apps, manages files, runs tests
tools: [Read, Write, Edit, Glob, Grep, Bash, WebFetch, WebSearch, Task]
---
```

**Solution**: Decompose into focused agents:

```yaml
---
name: docs-checker
description: Validates documentation quality
tools: [Read, Glob, Grep, Write]
---
---
name: docs-maker
description: Creates documentation content
tools: [Read, Write, Glob]
---
---
name: apps__deployer
description: Deploys applications to production
tools: [Bash, Grep]
---
```

**Rationale:**

- Easier to test and maintain
- Clear responsibility boundaries
- Simpler permission model
- Better reusability

### Anti-Pattern 2: Requesting Excessive Tool Permissions

**Problem**: Agent requests tools it does not actually use.

**Bad Example:**

```yaml
---
name: link-checker
description: Validates links in markdown files
tools: [Read, Write, Edit, Glob, Grep, Bash, WebFetch, WebSearch, Task]
# Only needs: Read, Glob, Grep, WebFetch, Write
---
```

**Solution:**

```yaml
---
name: link-checker
description: Validates links in markdown files
tools: [Read, Glob, Grep, WebFetch, Write] # Only what is needed
---
```

**Rationale:**

- Reduces security risk
- Faster user approval
- Clear capability boundaries
- Easier auditing

### Anti-Pattern 3: Vague or Generic Descriptions

**Problem**: Agent description does not clearly communicate what it does or when to use it.

**Bad Example:**

```yaml
---
name: checker
description: Checks things
---
```

**Solution:**

```yaml
---
name: docs-tutorial-checker
description: >
  Validates tutorial quality focusing on pedagogical structure,
  narrative flow, visual completeness, and hands-on elements.
  Use when reviewing tutorial documentation.
---
```

**Rationale:**

- Clear purpose and scope
- Better discoverability
- Users know when to invoke

### Anti-Pattern 4: Using Write/Edit Tools in .claude/ Directory

**Problem**: Using Write/Edit tools for .claude/ operations triggers approval prompts.

**Bad Example:**

```markdown
## Implementation

Use Write tool to create new agent file in .claude/agents/

# This requires user approval for each file!
```

**Solution:**

```bash
# Use Bash heredoc for autonomous operation
cat > .claude/agents/new-agent.md <<'EOF'
---
name: new-agent
---
Content here
EOF
```

**Rationale:**

- Autonomous operation
- No approval prompts
- Established pattern

### Anti-Pattern 5: Hardcoded Paths and Values

**Problem**: Agent has hardcoded paths or values that break when structure changes.

**Bad Example:**

```yaml
---
context: |
  Always write reports to /home/user/repos/project/generated-reports/
  Check files in /home/user/repos/project/docs/
---
```

**Solution:**

```yaml
---
context: |
  Write reports to generated-reports/ (relative to repo root)
  Check files in docs/ directory
  Use Glob to find files dynamically
---
```

**Rationale:**

- Portable across environments
- Works on different machines
- Resilient to restructuring

### Anti-Pattern 6: No Error Handling Guidance

**Problem**: Agent does not document how to handle errors or edge cases.

**Bad Example:**

```yaml
---
description: Processes files and generates reports
# No mention of error handling
---
```

**Solution:**

```yaml
---
description: >
  Processes markdown files and generates reports.
  Handles missing files gracefully with warnings.
  Skips binary files. Creates output directory if missing.
---
```

**Rationale:**

- Clear error behavior
- Graceful degradation
- Better user experience

### Anti-Pattern 7: Missing Tool Usage Documentation

**Problem**: Agent frontmatter does not explain how tools are used.

**Bad Example:**

```yaml
---
name: validator
tools: [Read, Write, Bash, WebFetch]
# No explanation of tool usage
---
```

**Solution:**

```markdown
## Tool Usage

- **Read**: Scan files for validation
- **Write**: Generate audit reports
- **Bash**: Execute git commands for file operations
- **WebFetch**: Verify external references
```

**Rationale:**

- Transparent behavior
- Security clarity
- Easier troubleshooting

### Anti-Pattern 8: Using Wrong Model for Task

**Problem**: Using expensive Sonnet model for simple tasks or Haiku for complex reasoning.

**Bad Example:**

```yaml
---
name: simple-link-checker
model: sonnet # Overkill for simple link validation
---
---
name: complex-architectural-analyzer
model: haiku # Insufficient for deep reasoning
---
```

**Solution:**

```yaml
---
name: simple-link-checker
model: haiku # Sufficient for validation
---
---
name: complex-architectural-analyzer
model: sonnet # Needed for deep reasoning
---
```

**Rationale:**

- Cost optimization
- Performance optimization
- Appropriate capability match

### Anti-Pattern 9: No Testing Before Deployment

**Problem**: Deploying agents without testing edge cases and error scenarios.

**Bad Example:**

```markdown
Created new agent, deploying immediately

# No testing performed
```

**Solution:**

```markdown
## Testing Checklist

- [ ] Valid input - passes
- [ ] Invalid input - reports error
- [ ] Empty file - handles gracefully
- [ ] Missing file - reports error
- [ ] Large file - handles pagination
- [ ] Permission denied - reports error clearly
```

**Rationale:**

- Production readiness
- Robust error handling
- Confident deployments

### Anti-Pattern 10: Generic Agent Names

**Problem**: Using non-descriptive agent names that do not indicate purpose.

**Bad Example:**

```
agent1.md
checker.md
validator.md
tool.md
```

**Solution:**

```
docs-tutorial-checker.md
apps__ayokoding-web__deployer.md
plan-execution-checker.md
readme-maker.md
```

**Rationale:**

- Clear categorization
- Easy discovery
- Self-documenting

## Summary of Anti-Patterns

| Anti-Pattern                   | Problem                          | Solution                           |
| ------------------------------ | -------------------------------- | ---------------------------------- |
| **God Agent**                  | Too many responsibilities        | Decompose into focused agents      |
| **Excessive Tool Permissions** | Requesting unused tools          | Request only necessary tools       |
| **Vague Descriptions**         | Unclear purpose                  | Clear, actionable descriptions     |
| **Write/Edit in .claude/**     | Triggers approval prompts        | Use Bash heredocs                  |
| **Hardcoded Paths**            | Breaks in different environments | Use relative paths                 |
| **No Error Handling Guidance** | Unclear error behavior           | Document error handling            |
| **Missing Tool Usage Docs**    | Unclear how tools are used       | Document tool usage                |
| **Wrong Model Selection**      | Cost/performance mismatch        | Match model to task complexity     |
| **No Testing**                 | Production issues                | Test edge cases before deployment  |
| **Generic Names**              | Hard to discover and categorize  | Use descriptive, categorized names |

## Related Documentation

- [AI Agents Convention](./ai-agents.md) - Complete agent development standards
- [Best Practices](./best-practices.md) - Recommended patterns
- [Skill Context Architecture](./skill-context-architecture.md) - Skill integration patterns
- [Agents Index](../../../.claude/agents/README.md) - All available agents

## Conclusion

Avoiding these anti-patterns ensures:

- Focused, single-responsibility agents
- Appropriate tool permissions
- Clear communication of purpose
- Autonomous operation patterns
- Portable, resilient implementations
- Robust error handling
- Transparent tool usage
- Cost-effective model selection
- Production-ready agents
- Discoverable agent library

When implementing agents, ask: **Am I adding clarity or complexity?** If complexity, refactor to follow agent development best practices.

## Principles Applied

- **Simplicity Over Complexity**: Focused, single-purpose agents
- **Explicit Over Implicit**: Clear permissions and behavior
- **Security First**: Minimum necessary permissions
- **Testability**: Comprehensive testing before deployment

Commit message:

refactor(governance): complete repository rules validation with zero findings
Executed repository-wide governance validation in OCD mode through 4
iterations, achieving zero findings across all criticality levels.

Iteration 1 - Agent Duplication Cleanup:
- Remove Workflow Integration boilerplate from 14 checker agents (~140 lines)
- Remove Tool Usage sections from all 45 agents (~360-540 lines)
- Simplify verbose skill references to concise format (19 agents)
- Add Vision Supported section to deliberate-problem-solving principle

Iteration 2 - Traceability Fixes:
- Add Principles Implemented section to software-design-reference convention
- Add Conventions Implemented section to skill-context-architecture practice

Iteration 3 - Content & Reference Cleanup:
- Remove time estimates from tutorial/general.md convention (5 instances)
- Move template skill (repo-multi-file-template) to docs/reference/templates/
- Fix broken principle references in 11 prog-lang docs
  (remove security-first, quality-first, measure-first-optimize-later)

Iteration 4 - Final Cleanup:
- Remove 2 remaining broken principle references from platform-web docs
- Add traceability sections to 12 companion documents
  (best-practices.md and anti-patterns.md in governance/development/)

Impact:
- 122 files changed
- 332 insertions, 1378 deletions
- Net reduction: 1046 lines
- Repository governance now fully compliant with zero validation findings

Validation: repo-governance-checker (4 iterations)

governance/development/agents/anti-patterns.md, after:

# Anti-Patterns in AI Agents Development

> **Companion Document**: For positive guidance on what to do, see [Best Practices](./best-practices.md)

## Overview

## Principles Respected

This companion document respects:

- **[Simplicity Over Complexity](../../principles/general/simplicity-over-complexity.md)**: Provides practical examples of simple vs complex approaches
- **[Explicit Over Implicit](../../principles/software-engineering/explicit-over-implicit.md)**: Makes patterns and anti-patterns explicit through clear examples

## Conventions Implemented/Respected

This companion document supports the conventions in this directory by providing practical examples and guidance.

Understanding common mistakes in AI agent development helps teams build more maintainable, secure, and effective automation. These anti-patterns cause complexity, security risks, and maintenance burden.

## Purpose

## Principles Respected

This companion document respects:

- **[Simplicity Over Complexity](../../principles/general/simplicity-over-complexity.md)**: Provides practical examples of simple vs complex approaches
- **[Explicit Over Implicit](../../principles/software-engineering/explicit-over-implicit.md)**: Makes patterns and anti-patterns explicit through clear examples

## Conventions Implemented/Respected

This companion document supports the conventions in this directory by providing practical examples and guidance.

This document provides:

- Common anti-patterns in agent development
- Examples of problematic implementations
- Solutions and corrections for each anti-pattern
- Security and maintenance considerations

## Common Anti-Patterns

### Anti-Pattern 1: God Agent

**Problem**: Single agent tries to handle too many responsibilities.

**Bad Example:**

```yaml
---
name: super-agent
description: Validates docs, creates content, deploys apps, manages files, runs tests
tools: [Read, Write, Edit, Glob, Grep, Bash, WebFetch, WebSearch, Task]
---
```

**Solution**: Decompose into focused agents:

```yaml
---
name: docs-checker
description: Validates documentation quality
tools: [Read, Glob, Grep, Write]
---
---
name: docs-maker
description: Creates documentation content
tools: [Read, Write, Glob]
---
---
name: apps__deployer
description: Deploys applications to production
tools: [Bash, Grep]
---
```

**Rationale:**

- Easier to test and maintain
- Clear responsibility boundaries
- Simpler permission model
- Better reusability

### Anti-Pattern 2: Requesting Excessive Tool Permissions

**Problem**: Agent requests tools it does not actually use.

**Bad Example:**

```yaml
---
name: link-checker
description: Validates links in markdown files
tools: [Read, Write, Edit, Glob, Grep, Bash, WebFetch, WebSearch, Task]
# Only needs: Read, Glob, Grep, WebFetch, Write
---
```

**Solution:**

```yaml
---
name: link-checker
description: Validates links in markdown files
tools: [Read, Glob, Grep, WebFetch, Write] # Only what is needed
---
```

**Rationale:**

- Reduces security risk
- Faster user approval
- Clear capability boundaries
- Easier auditing

### Anti-Pattern 3: Vague or Generic Descriptions

**Problem**: Agent description does not clearly communicate what it does or when to use it.

**Bad Example:**

```yaml
---
name: checker
description: Checks things
---
```

**Solution:**

```yaml
---
name: docs-tutorial-checker
description: >
  Validates tutorial quality focusing on pedagogical structure,
  narrative flow, visual completeness, and hands-on elements.
  Use when reviewing tutorial documentation.
---
```

**Rationale:**

- Clear purpose and scope
- Better discoverability
- Users know when to invoke

### Anti-Pattern 4: Using Write/Edit Tools in .claude/ Directory

**Problem**: Using Write/Edit tools for .claude/ operations triggers approval prompts.

**Bad Example:**

```markdown
## Implementation

Use Write tool to create new agent file in .claude/agents/

# This requires user approval for each file!
```

**Solution:**

```bash
# Use Bash heredoc for autonomous operation
cat > .claude/agents/new-agent.md <<'EOF'
---
name: new-agent
---
Content here
EOF
```

**Rationale:**

- Autonomous operation
- No approval prompts
- Established pattern

### Anti-Pattern 5: Hardcoded Paths and Values

**Problem**: Agent has hardcoded paths or values that break when structure changes.

**Bad Example:**

```yaml
---
context: |
  Always write reports to /home/user/repos/project/generated-reports/
  Check files in /home/user/repos/project/docs/
---
```

**Solution:**

```yaml
---
context: |
  Write reports to generated-reports/ (relative to repo root)
  Check files in docs/ directory
  Use Glob to find files dynamically
---
```

**Rationale:**

- Portable across environments
- Works on different machines
- Resilient to restructuring

### Anti-Pattern 6: No Error Handling Guidance

**Problem**: Agent does not document how to handle errors or edge cases.

**Bad Example:**

```yaml
---
description: Processes files and generates reports
# No mention of error handling
---
```

**Solution:**

```yaml
---
description: >
  Processes markdown files and generates reports.
  Handles missing files gracefully with warnings.
  Skips binary files. Creates output directory if missing.
---
```

**Rationale:**

- Clear error behavior
- Graceful degradation
- Better user experience

### Anti-Pattern 7: Missing Tool Usage Documentation

**Problem**: Agent frontmatter does not explain how tools are used.

**Bad Example:**

```yaml
---
name: validator
tools: [Read, Write, Bash, WebFetch]
# No explanation of tool usage
---
```

**Solution:**

```markdown
## Tool Usage

- **Read**: Scan files for validation
- **Write**: Generate audit reports
- **Bash**: Execute git commands for file operations
- **WebFetch**: Verify external references
```

**Rationale:**

- Transparent behavior
- Security clarity
- Easier troubleshooting

### Anti-Pattern 8: Using Wrong Model for Task

**Problem**: Using expensive Sonnet model for simple tasks or Haiku for complex reasoning.

**Bad Example:**

```yaml
---
name: simple-link-checker
model: sonnet # Overkill for simple link validation
---
---
name: complex-architectural-analyzer
model: haiku # Insufficient for deep reasoning
---
```

**Solution:**

```yaml
---
name: simple-link-checker
model: haiku # Sufficient for validation
---
---
name: complex-architectural-analyzer
model: sonnet # Needed for deep reasoning
---
```

**Rationale:**

- Cost optimization
- Performance optimization
- Appropriate capability match

### Anti-Pattern 9: No Testing Before Deployment

**Problem**: Deploying agents without testing edge cases and error scenarios.

**Bad Example:**

```markdown
Created new agent, deploying immediately

# No testing performed
```

**Solution:**

```markdown
## Testing Checklist

- [ ] Valid input - passes
- [ ] Invalid input - reports error
- [ ] Empty file - handles gracefully
- [ ] Missing file - reports error
- [ ] Large file - handles pagination
- [ ] Permission denied - reports error clearly
```

**Rationale:**

- Production readiness
- Robust error handling
- Confident deployments

### Anti-Pattern 10: Generic Agent Names

**Problem**: Using non-descriptive agent names that do not indicate purpose.

**Bad Example:**

```
agent1.md
checker.md
validator.md
tool.md
```

**Solution:**

```
docs-tutorial-checker.md
apps__ayokoding-web__deployer.md
plan-execution-checker.md
readme-maker.md
```

**Rationale:**

- Clear categorization
- Easy discovery
- Self-documenting

## Summary of Anti-Patterns

| Anti-Pattern                   | Problem                          | Solution                           |
| ------------------------------ | -------------------------------- | ---------------------------------- |
| **God Agent**                  | Too many responsibilities        | Decompose into focused agents      |
| **Excessive Tool Permissions** | Requesting unused tools          | Request only necessary tools       |
| **Vague Descriptions**         | Unclear purpose                  | Clear, actionable descriptions     |
| **Write/Edit in .claude/**     | Triggers approval prompts        | Use Bash heredocs                  |
| **Hardcoded Paths**            | Breaks in different environments | Use relative paths                 |
| **No Error Handling Guidance** | Unclear error behavior           | Document error handling            |
| **Missing Tool Usage Docs**    | Unclear how tools are used       | Document tool usage                |
| **Wrong Model Selection**      | Cost/performance mismatch        | Match model to task complexity     |
| **No Testing**                 | Production issues                | Test edge cases before deployment  |
| **Generic Names**              | Hard to discover and categorize  | Use descriptive, categorized names |

## Related Documentation

- [AI Agents Convention](./ai-agents.md) - Complete agent development standards
- [Best Practices](./best-practices.md) - Recommended patterns
- [Skill Context Architecture](./skill-context-architecture.md) - Skill integration patterns
- [Agents Index](../../../.claude/agents/README.md) - All available agents

## Conclusion

Avoiding these anti-patterns ensures:

- Focused, single-responsibility agents
- Appropriate tool permissions
- Clear communication of purpose
- Autonomous operation patterns
- Portable, resilient implementations
- Robust error handling
- Transparent tool usage
- Cost-effective model selection
- Production-ready agents
- Discoverable agent library

When implementing agents, ask: **Am I adding clarity or complexity?** If complexity, refactor to follow agent development best practices.

## Principles Applied

- **Simplicity Over Complexity**: Focused, single-purpose agents
- **Explicit Over Implicit**: Clear permissions and behavior
- **Security First**: Minimum necessary permissions
- **Testability**: Comprehensive testing before deployment
