governance/development/agents/skill-context-architecture.md, before:

---
title: "Skill Context Architecture"
description: Architectural constraint requiring all repository skills to use inline context for subagent compatibility
category: explanation
subcategory: development
tags:
  - ai-agents
  - skills
  - architecture
  - constraints
  - subagents
created: 2026-01-22
updated: 2026-01-22
---

# Skill Context Architecture

This document defines the architectural constraint that all skills in `.claude/skills/` directory MUST use inline context mode (not `context: fork`) to ensure compatibility with both main conversation and subagent contexts.

## Principles Implemented/Respected

This convention respects the following core principles:

- **[Explicit Over Implicit](../../principles/software-engineering/explicit-over-implicit.md)**: Explicitly documents the architectural constraint preventing subagents from spawning other subagents. Makes the limitation visible and provides clear guidance on skill design decisions.

- **[Simplicity Over Complexity](../../principles/general/simplicity-over-complexity.md)**: Single-level subagent spawning prevents complex nested agent hierarchies. Skills remain simple knowledge containers that work everywhere, avoiding architectural complexity.

## Conventions Implemented/Respected

This development practice implements/respects the following conventions:

- **[AI Agents Convention](./ai-agents.md)**: By establishing the architectural constraint that skills must be inline-compatible, this practice ensures agents can reliably compose skills without runtime failures. The AI Agents Convention defines agent structure and tool usage; this architecture ensures skills integrate seamlessly with that structure across both main conversation and subagent contexts.

## Purpose

This architectural decision establishes that all skills stored in the `.claude/skills/` directory must remain compatible with both main conversation agents and subagents. Since subagents cannot spawn other subagents (architectural constraint of Claude Code and OpenCode), skills with `context: fork` would be unusable in subagent contexts.

**Target Audience**:

- Agent developers creating or maintaining skills
- Repository maintainers reviewing skill contributions
- Anyone designing agent workflows involving skills

## The Architectural Constraint

### Core Limitation

**Subagents cannot spawn other subagents.**

This is a fundamental architectural constraint of both Claude Code and OpenCode systems:

```
Main Conversation
├─ Can spawn subagents ✅
└─ Subagent (forked context)
   ├─ Can use inline skills ✅
   ├─ Can reference conventions ✅
   └─ Can spawn subagents ❌ (architectural constraint)
```

### Impact on Skills

Since skills with `context: fork` spawn subagents:

1. **Main conversation** can use fork skills ✅ (spawns subagent successfully)
2. **Subagents** cannot use fork skills ❌ (would require spawning nested subagent)

If `.claude/skills/` contains fork skills:

- ✅ Work in main conversation
- ❌ Break when used by subagents
- ❌ Reduce skill composability
- ❌ Create confusing "works sometimes" behavior

## The Repository Standard

### All .claude/skills/ Must Be Inline

**Standard**: All skills in `.claude/skills/` directory MUST use inline context mode (or omit `context` field, defaulting to inline).

**Rationale**:

1. **Universal compatibility** - Work in both main conversation and subagent contexts
2. **Predictable behavior** - Skills always inject knowledge, never fail
3. **Composability** - Agents can freely compose multiple skills
4. **Subagent safety** - Subagents can use any skill without errors

### Inline Context Mode

**Default behavior** when `context` field is omitted or set to `inline`:

```yaml
---
description: Knowledge about X for agents
# context: inline is implicit (default)
---
```

**Characteristics**:

- **Progressive disclosure** - Name/description at startup, full content on-demand
- **Knowledge injection** - Add standards and guidance to current conversation
- **Convention packaging** - Bundle governance knowledge for efficient consumption
- **Universal compatibility** - Work in main conversation AND subagent contexts
- **Composition** - Multiple skills work together seamlessly

**Tool usage**: Skills can use `Read`, `Grep`, `Glob` to reference convention documents but should not modify files.

## Fork Skills: Use Outside .claude/skills/

### When You Need Fork Behavior

If you genuinely need task delegation with subagent spawning:

**Option 1: Create project-specific fork skills**

Place fork skills in a different directory (NOT `.claude/skills/`):

```
.claude/
├─ skills/              # ✅ All inline (universal compatibility)
└─ fork-skills/         # ✅ Fork skills (main conversation only)
   └─ deep-research/
      └─ SKILL.md      # context: fork, agent: Explore
```

**Characteristics**:

- Only usable from main conversation
- Clearly separated from universal skills
- Documented as "main conversation only"

**Option 2: Use agent workflows**

For complex orchestration, use workflow documents (Layer 5) that coordinate multiple agents in sequence rather than nesting:

```markdown
## Workflow Steps

1. Main conversation uses agent-maker
2. Main conversation uses agent-checker (separate invocation)
3. Main conversation uses agent-fixer (separate invocation)
```

This avoids subagent nesting while achieving similar orchestration goals.

### Fork Skill Use Cases (Outside Repository)

Valid use cases for fork skills (in project-specific directories):

- **Deep research** - Spawn Explore agent for focused investigation
- **Specialized analysis** - Delegate complex analysis to specific agent type
- **Parallel exploration** - Multiple fork skills explore different aspects
- **Workflow delegation** - Main conversation orchestrates multiple subagents

**Key constraint**: These must be used from main conversation, never from subagents.

## Validation and Compliance

### Skill Validation Checklist

When creating or reviewing skills in `.claude/skills/`:

- [ ] `context` field is omitted OR set to `inline`
- [ ] No `agent` field (only valid with `context: fork`)
- [ ] Skill provides knowledge, not task delegation
- [ ] Description focuses on knowledge domain, not agent spawning
- [ ] Skill works identically in main conversation and subagent contexts

### Common Mistakes

#### ❌ Mistake 1: Fork skill in .claude/skills/

**Wrong**:

```yaml
# .claude/skills/deep-research/SKILL.md
---
description: Performs deep research on topics
context: fork
agent: Explore
---
```

**Problem**: Breaks when subagents try to use this skill.

**Right**: Move to `.claude/fork-skills/` or use different approach.

#### ❌ Mistake 2: Inline skill trying to spawn agents

**Wrong**:

```yaml
# .claude/skills/analysis/SKILL.md
---
description: Analyzes code quality
---
# Analysis Skill

Run the code-checker agent to validate...
```

**Problem**: Inline skills can't spawn agents. Skill will fail to execute.

**Right**: Either make it a fork skill (outside .claude/skills/) or reference conventions instead of delegating to agents.

#### ❌ Mistake 3: Mixing inline and fork behavior

**Wrong**:

```yaml
# .claude/skills/hybrid/SKILL.md
---
description: Provides knowledge and delegates tasks
context: inline
---
Use these standards... [knowledge content]

For complex cases, spawn the analyzer agent... [delegation content]
```

**Problem**: Inline skills can't spawn agents. Choose one mode.

**Right**: Split into two skills - inline skill for knowledge, fork skill for delegation (in separate directory).

## Architecture Diagram

```mermaid
graph TD
    MC[Main Conversation]
    SA[Subagent Forked Context]
    IS[Inline Skills<br/>.claude/skills/]
    FS[Fork Skills<br/>project-specific dir]
    CONV[Convention Documents<br/>governance/]

    MC -->|spawns| SA
    MC -->|uses| IS
    MC -->|uses| FS
    SA -->|uses| IS
    SA -->|CANNOT use| FS
    IS -->|references| CONV
    FS -->|spawns| SA

    style MC fill:#0173B2,stroke:#000000,color:#FFFFFF,stroke-width:2px
    style SA fill:#CC78BC,stroke:#000000,color:#FFFFFF,stroke-width:2px
    style IS fill:#029E73,stroke:#000000,color:#FFFFFF,stroke-width:3px
    style FS fill:#DE8F05,stroke:#000000,color:#FFFFFF,stroke-width:2px
    style CONV fill:#CA9161,stroke:#000000,color:#FFFFFF,stroke-width:2px

    linkStyle 4 stroke:#FF0000,stroke-width:3px,stroke-dasharray:5
```

**Key**:

- Blue: Main conversation context
- Purple: Subagent (forked) context
- Green: Universal inline skills (works everywhere)
- Orange: Fork skills (main conversation only)
- Brown: Convention documents (governance layer)
- Red dashed: Architectural constraint (cannot do)

## Related Documentation

### Core Architecture

- **[Repository Governance Architecture](../../repository-governance-architecture.md)** - Six-layer architecture including skills as delivery infrastructure
- **[AI Agents Convention](./ai-agents.md)** - Agent structure and tool permissions

### Skills Documentation

- **[.claude/skills/README.md](../../../.claude/skills/README.md)** - Skill modes (inline vs fork) and organization
- **[How to Create a New Skill](../../../docs/how-to/hoto__create-new-skill.md)** - Step-by-step skill creation guide

### Related Conventions

- **[Maker-Checker-Fixer Pattern](../pattern/maker-checker-fixer.md)** - Three-stage workflow without nested subagents
- **[Temporary Files Convention](../infra/temporary-files.md)** - Audit reports enabling sequential agent workflows

## Enforcement

### Code Review Checklist

When reviewing PRs that add or modify skills in `.claude/skills/`:

1. Verify `context` field is omitted or set to `inline`
2. Confirm no `agent` field exists
3. Check skill description focuses on knowledge domain
4. Validate skill contains knowledge/guidance, not task delegation
5. Ensure skill references conventions rather than spawning agents

### Automated Validation (Future)

Potential automated checks:

```bash
# Check for fork context in .claude/skills/
grep -r "context: fork" .claude/skills/

# Check for agent field in .claude/skills/
grep -r "^agent:" .claude/skills/
```

Exit code 0 (no matches) = compliant, >0 = violations found.

## Summary

**The Rule**: All skills in `.claude/skills/` MUST use inline context mode.

**The Reason**: Subagents cannot spawn other subagents (architectural constraint).

**The Impact**: Universal skill compatibility across main conversation and subagent contexts.

**The Alternative**: Place fork skills in project-specific directories outside `.claude/skills/`, documented as "main conversation only".

This architectural decision ensures skills work predictably everywhere, enabling confident skill composition and subagent usage throughout the repository.

---

**Last Updated**: 2026-01-22
**Status**: Active Standard

Commit message:

chore(governance): apply governance checker improvements to agents and docs
Apply findings from previous governance-checker/fixer workflow run:

- Update agent role labels (Implementor → Updater/yellow for fixer agents)
- Remove duplicated mode handling from agent files (reference skill instead)
- Expand emoji convention scope (governance/, AGENTS.md, .opencode/agent/)
- Update AGENTS.md with improved skill and agent descriptions
- Update CLAUDE.md with fork skill description and emoji convention
- Add frontmatter to governance/repository-governance-architecture.md
- Expand convention categories in repository architecture doc
- Update governance/workflows/ with improved agent references
- Update governance/development/ docs with convention/principle links
- Fix MD038 lint error in docs-maker.md (spaces in code span)

governance/development/agents/skill-context-architecture.md, after:

---
title: "Skill Context Architecture"
description: Architectural guidance on skill context modes in `.claude/skills/`. Inline skills work universally; fork skills work from main conversation only.
category: explanation
subcategory: development
tags:
  - ai-agents
  - skills
  - architecture
  - constraints
  - subagents
created: 2026-01-22
updated: 2026-02-22
---

# Skill Context Architecture

This document defines the architectural constraint governing skill context modes in `.claude/skills/`. Inline skills work universally; fork skills work from main conversation only. Both modes are supported in `.claude/skills/`.

## Principles Implemented/Respected

This convention respects the following core principles:

- **[Explicit Over Implicit](../../principles/software-engineering/explicit-over-implicit.md)**: Explicitly documents the architectural constraint preventing subagents from spawning other subagents. Makes the limitation visible and provides clear guidance on skill design decisions.

- **[Simplicity Over Complexity](../../principles/general/simplicity-over-complexity.md)**: Single-level subagent spawning prevents complex nested agent hierarchies. Skills remain simple knowledge containers that work everywhere, avoiding architectural complexity.

## Conventions Implemented/Respected

This development practice implements/respects the following conventions:

- **[AI Agents Convention](./ai-agents.md)**: By establishing the architectural constraint that skills must be inline-compatible, this practice ensures agents can reliably compose skills without runtime failures. The AI Agents Convention defines agent structure and tool usage; this architecture ensures skills integrate seamlessly with that structure across both main conversation and subagent contexts.

## Purpose

This architectural decision establishes that all skills stored in the `.claude/skills/` directory must remain compatible with both main conversation agents and subagents. Since subagents cannot spawn other subagents (architectural constraint of Claude Code and OpenCode), skills with `context: fork` would be unusable in subagent contexts.

**Target Audience**:

- Agent developers creating or maintaining skills
- Repository maintainers reviewing skill contributions
- Anyone designing agent workflows involving skills

## The Architectural Constraint

### Core Limitation

**Subagents cannot spawn other subagents.**

This is a fundamental architectural constraint of both Claude Code and OpenCode systems:

```
Main Conversation
├─ Can spawn subagents ✅
└─ Subagent (forked context)
   ├─ Can use inline skills ✅
   ├─ Can reference conventions ✅
   └─ Can spawn subagents ❌ (architectural constraint)
```

### Impact on Skills

Since skills with `context: fork` spawn subagents:

1. **Main conversation** can use fork skills ✅ (spawns subagent successfully)
2. **Subagents** cannot use fork skills ❌ (would require spawning nested subagent)

If `.claude/skills/` contains fork skills:

- ✅ Work in main conversation
- ❌ Break when used by subagents
- ❌ Reduce skill composability
- ❌ Create confusing "works sometimes" behavior

## The Repository Standard

### Skill Context Modes in .claude/skills/

**Standard**: Skills in `.claude/skills/` support two context modes:

- **Inline skills** (default): Omit `context` field or set `context: inline`. Work in BOTH main conversation AND subagent contexts.
- **Fork skills** (`context: fork`): Work from MAIN CONVERSATION ONLY (subagents cannot spawn subagents).

**Rationale**:

1. **Universal compatibility** - Work in both main conversation and subagent contexts
2. **Predictable behavior** - Skills always inject knowledge, never fail
3. **Composability** - Agents can freely compose multiple skills
4. **Subagent safety** - Subagents can use any skill without errors

### Inline Context Mode

**Default behavior** when `context` field is omitted or set to `inline`:

```yaml
---
description: Knowledge about X for agents
# context: inline is implicit (default)
---
```

**Characteristics**:

- **Progressive disclosure** - Name/description at startup, full content on-demand
- **Knowledge injection** - Add standards and guidance to current conversation
- **Convention packaging** - Bundle governance knowledge for efficient consumption
- **Universal compatibility** - Work in main conversation AND subagent contexts
- **Composition** - Multiple skills work together seamlessly

**Tool usage**: Skills can use `Read`, `Grep`, `Glob` to reference convention documents but should not modify files.

## Fork Skills: Main Conversation Only

### When You Need Fork Behavior

**Option 1: Create fork skills in .claude/skills/ (recommended)**

Fork skills in `.claude/skills/` work from main conversation:

```
.claude/
└─ skills/
   ├─ inline-skill/     # ✅ Inline skill (universal compatibility)
   │  └─ SKILL.md      # context: inline (default)
   └─ fork-skill/       # ✅ Fork skill (main conversation only)
      └─ SKILL.md      # context: fork
```

**Characteristics**:

- Only usable from main conversation
- Clearly separated from universal skills
- Documented as "main conversation only"

**Option 2: Use agent workflows**

For complex orchestration, use workflow documents (Layer 5) that coordinate multiple agents in sequence rather than nesting:

```markdown
## Workflow Steps

1. Main conversation uses agent-maker
2. Main conversation uses agent-checker (separate invocation)
3. Main conversation uses agent-fixer (separate invocation)
```

This avoids subagent nesting while achieving similar orchestration goals.

### Fork Skill Use Cases (Outside Repository)

Valid use cases for fork skills (in project-specific directories):

- **Deep research** - Spawn Explore agent for focused investigation
- **Specialized analysis** - Delegate complex analysis to specific agent type
- **Parallel exploration** - Multiple fork skills explore different aspects
- **Workflow delegation** - Main conversation orchestrates multiple subagents

**Key constraint**: These must be used from main conversation, never from subagents.

## Validation and Compliance

### Skill Validation Checklist

When creating or reviewing skills in `.claude/skills/`:

- [ ] `context` field is omitted (inline default), `inline`, or `fork` (main conversation only)
- [ ] No `agent` field (only valid with `context: fork`)
- [ ] Skill provides knowledge, not task delegation
- [ ] Description focuses on knowledge domain, not agent spawning
- [ ] Skill works identically in main conversation and subagent contexts

### Common Mistakes

#### ❌ Mistake 1: Fork skill with agent field in .claude/skills/

**Wrong**:

```yaml
# .claude/skills/deep-research/SKILL.md
---
description: Performs deep research on topics
context: fork
agent: Explore
---
```

**Problem**: Breaks when subagents try to use this skill.

**Right**: Keep in `.claude/skills/` but document as main-conversation-only, or use a workflow approach.

#### ❌ Mistake 2: Inline skill trying to spawn agents

**Wrong**:

```yaml
# .claude/skills/analysis/SKILL.md
---
description: Analyzes code quality
---
# Analysis Skill

Run the code-checker agent to validate...
```

**Problem**: Inline skills can't spawn agents. Skill will fail to execute.

**Right**: Either make it a fork skill (outside .claude/skills/) or reference conventions instead of delegating to agents.

#### ❌ Mistake 3: Mixing inline and fork behavior

**Wrong**:

```yaml
# .claude/skills/hybrid/SKILL.md
---
description: Provides knowledge and delegates tasks
context: inline
---
Use these standards... [knowledge content]

For complex cases, spawn the analyzer agent... [delegation content]
```

**Problem**: Inline skills can't spawn agents. Choose one mode.

**Right**: Split into two skills - inline skill for knowledge, fork skill for delegation (in separate directory).

## Architecture Diagram

```mermaid
graph TD
    MC[Main Conversation]
    SA[Subagent Forked Context]
    IS[Inline Skills<br/>.claude/skills/]
    FS[Fork Skills<br/>project-specific dir]
    CONV[Convention Documents<br/>governance/]

    MC -->|spawns| SA
    MC -->|uses| IS
    MC -->|uses| FS
    SA -->|uses| IS
    SA -->|CANNOT use| FS
    IS -->|references| CONV
    FS -->|spawns| SA

    style MC fill:#0173B2,stroke:#000000,color:#FFFFFF,stroke-width:2px
    style SA fill:#CC78BC,stroke:#000000,color:#FFFFFF,stroke-width:2px
    style IS fill:#029E73,stroke:#000000,color:#FFFFFF,stroke-width:3px
    style FS fill:#DE8F05,stroke:#000000,color:#FFFFFF,stroke-width:2px
    style CONV fill:#CA9161,stroke:#000000,color:#FFFFFF,stroke-width:2px

    linkStyle 4 stroke:#FF0000,stroke-width:3px,stroke-dasharray:5
```

**Key**:

- Blue: Main conversation context
- Purple: Subagent (forked) context
- Green: Universal inline skills (works everywhere)
- Orange: Fork skills (main conversation only)
- Brown: Convention documents (governance layer)
- Red dashed: Architectural constraint (cannot do)

## Related Documentation

### Core Architecture

- **[Repository Governance Architecture](../../repository-governance-architecture.md)** - Six-layer architecture including skills as delivery infrastructure
- **[AI Agents Convention](./ai-agents.md)** - Agent structure and tool permissions

### Skills Documentation

- **[.claude/skills/README.md](../../../.claude/skills/README.md)** - Skill modes (inline vs fork) and organization
- **[How to Create a New Skill](../../../docs/how-to/hoto__create-new-skill.md)** - Step-by-step skill creation guide

### Related Conventions

- **[Maker-Checker-Fixer Pattern](../pattern/maker-checker-fixer.md)** - Three-stage workflow without nested subagents
- **[Temporary Files Convention](../infra/temporary-files.md)** - Audit reports enabling sequential agent workflows

## Enforcement

### Code Review Checklist

When reviewing PRs that add or modify skills in `.claude/skills/`:

1. Verify `context` field is omitted or set to `inline`
2. Confirm no `agent` field exists
3. Check skill description focuses on knowledge domain
4. Validate skill contains knowledge/guidance, not task delegation
5. Ensure skill references conventions rather than spawning agents

### Automated Validation (Future)

Potential automated checks:

```bash
# Check for fork context in .claude/skills/
grep -r "context: fork" .claude/skills/

# Check for agent field in .claude/skills/
grep -r "^agent:" .claude/skills/
```

Exit code 0 (no matches) = compliant, >0 = violations found.

## Summary

**The Rule**: Skills in `.claude/skills/` support both inline and fork modes.

**The Reason**: Subagents cannot spawn other subagents (architectural constraint).

**The Impact**: Universal skill compatibility across main conversation and subagent contexts.

**Key distinction**: When writing skills for agents that may run as subagents, use inline mode for guaranteed compatibility.

This architectural decision ensures skills work predictably everywhere, enabling confident skill composition and subagent usage throughout the repository.

---

**Last Updated**: 2026-02-22
**Status**: Active Standard
