apps/ayokoding-web/content/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/in-practice/_index.md, before:

---
title: "In Practice"
date: 2025-12-12T00:00:00+07:00
draft: false
description: Practical guidance and real-world patterns for Java development, progressing from standard library fundamentals to production frameworks
weight: 100004
type: docs
layout: list
---

- [Overview](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/in-practice/overview)

**Start Here**

- [Best Practices](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/in-practice/best-practices)
- [Anti-Patterns](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/in-practice/anti-patterns)

**Core Concepts**

- [Type Safety](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/in-practice/type-safety)
- [Functional Programming](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/in-practice/functional-programming)
- [Design Principles](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/in-practice/design-principles)
- [Concurrency and Parallelism](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/in-practice/concurrency-and-parallelism)
- [Dependency Injection](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/in-practice/dependency-injection)

**Patterns & Practices**

- [Finite State Machines](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/in-practice/finite-state-machines)
- [Test-Driven Development](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/in-practice/test-driven-development)
- [Behavior-Driven Development](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/in-practice/behavior-driven-development)

**Integration & External Systems**

- [Web Services and REST APIs](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/in-practice/web-services)
- [JSON and API Integration](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/in-practice/json-and-api-integration)
- [Working with SQL Databases](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/in-practice/sql-database)

**Application Development**

- [Building CLI Applications](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/in-practice/cli-app)

**Architecture & Design**

- [Domain-Driven Design](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/in-practice/domain-driven-design)

**Production Systems**

- [Security Practices](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/in-practice/security-practices)
- [Resilience Patterns](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/in-practice/resilience-patterns)
- [Cloud-Native Patterns](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/in-practice/cloud-native-patterns)
- [Performance Optimization](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/in-practice/performance)

**DevOps & Deployment**

- [Build Tools](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/in-practice/build-tools)
- [Linting and Formatting](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/in-practice/linting-and-formatting)
- [Logging](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/in-practice/logging)
- [CI/CD Pipelines](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/in-practice/ci-cd)
- [Docker and Kubernetes](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/in-practice/docker-and-kubernetes)

Commit message:

feat(ayokoding-web): add 4 critical Java in-practice files
Add comprehensive production-critical Java guides:

Priority 1 Files (High Priority):
- messaging.md: Event-driven architecture (~1050 lines)
  (JMS → Spring JMS → Kafka → Spring Cloud Stream)
- caching.md: Performance optimization (~920 lines)
  (Map-based → Caffeine → Redis → Spring Cache)
- authentication.md: Security deep dive (~1100 lines)
  (Basic Auth → Session → JWT → OAuth2/OIDC)
- nosql-databases.md: NoSQL integration (~1250 lines)
  (Driver APIs → Spring Data NoSQL)

All files follow "standard library first" pedagogy.
Total: ~4320 lines of production-critical content.

Coverage areas:
- Messaging: JMS, Kafka, RabbitMQ, event sourcing, CQRS
- Caching: In-memory, distributed, cache strategies
- Auth: JWT, OAuth2 flows, OIDC, Spring Security
- NoSQL: MongoDB, Redis, Cassandra patterns

Updates:
- _index.md: Add 4 files to navigation
- overview.md: Add 4 new progressions

Total files: 30 (25 existing + 4 new + _index.md)
Weights: 10000025-10000028 (sequential)

apps/ayokoding-web/content/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/in-practice/_index.md, after:

---
title: "In Practice"
date: 2025-12-12T00:00:00+07:00
draft: false
description: Practical guidance and real-world patterns for Java development, progressing from standard library fundamentals to production frameworks
weight: 100004
type: docs
layout: list
---

- [Overview](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/in-practice/overview)

**Start Here**

- [Best Practices](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/in-practice/best-practices)
- [Anti-Patterns](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/in-practice/anti-patterns)

**Core Concepts**

- [Type Safety](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/in-practice/type-safety)
- [Functional Programming](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/in-practice/functional-programming)
- [Design Principles](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/in-practice/design-principles)
- [Concurrency and Parallelism](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/in-practice/concurrency-and-parallelism)
- [Dependency Injection](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/in-practice/dependency-injection)

**Patterns & Practices**

- [Finite State Machines](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/in-practice/finite-state-machines)
- [Test-Driven Development](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/in-practice/test-driven-development)
- [Behavior-Driven Development](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/in-practice/behavior-driven-development)

**Integration & External Systems**

- [Web Services and REST APIs](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/in-practice/web-services)
- [JSON and API Integration](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/in-practice/json-and-api-integration)
- [Messaging and Event-Driven Architecture](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/in-practice/messaging)
- [Working with SQL Databases](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/in-practice/sql-database)
- [Working with NoSQL Databases](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/in-practice/nosql-databases)

**Application Development**

- [Building CLI Applications](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/in-practice/cli-app)

**Architecture & Design**

- [Domain-Driven Design](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/in-practice/domain-driven-design)

**Production Systems**

- [Authentication and Authorization](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/in-practice/authentication)
- [Security Practices](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/in-practice/security-practices)
- [Caching](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/in-practice/caching)
- [Resilience Patterns](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/in-practice/resilience-patterns)
- [Cloud-Native Patterns](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/in-practice/cloud-native-patterns)
- [Performance Optimization](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/in-practice/performance)

**DevOps & Deployment**

- [Build Tools](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/in-practice/build-tools)
- [Linting and Formatting](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/in-practice/linting-and-formatting)
- [Logging](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/in-practice/logging)
- [CI/CD Pipelines](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/in-practice/ci-cd)
- [Docker and Kubernetes](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/in-practice/docker-and-kubernetes)
