apps/ayokoding-web/content/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/in-practice/overview.md, before:

---
title: "Overview"
date: 2025-12-12T00:00:00+07:00
draft: false
description: Practical guidance for applying Java concepts in real-world development
weight: 10000000
tags: ["java", "in-practice", "overview"]
---

## What is In-Practice Content?

In-practice content provides **conceptual guidance** for applying Java knowledge in real-world development scenarios. This section bridges the gap between learning syntax and building robust, maintainable applications.

## Focus Areas

### Anti-Patterns

Common mistakes and pitfalls to avoid in Java development. Learn to recognize problematic patterns before they become ingrained in your codebase.

**Topics covered:**

- Concurrency anti-patterns (thread leakage, race conditions, deadlocks)
- Resource management mistakes (unclosed resources, connection leaks)
- Design anti-patterns (god classes, primitive obsession, shotgun surgery)
- Performance anti-patterns (N+1 queries, premature optimization)
- Security anti-patterns (input validation, credential management)

### Future Topics

Additional in-practice content will cover:

- Best practices and idioms
- Design patterns in Java
- Testing strategies
- Performance optimization approaches
- Security considerations

## How This Differs from By-Example

**In-practice content:**

- Focuses on **conceptual understanding** and **why** patterns emerge
- Uses illustrative code examples to show problems and solutions
- Emphasizes problem/solution format and comparison tables
- More narrative and explanatory

**By-example tutorials:**

- Focuses on **code-first learning** with heavy annotations
- Uses 1-2.25 comment density per code line
- Emphasizes incremental skill building through examples
- More code-centric and practical

## Getting the Most from In-Practice Content

1. **Read actively**: Consider how anti-patterns might appear in your code
2. **Compare examples**: Study both problematic and corrected versions
3. **Apply to your work**: Identify potential issues in existing codebases
4. **Cross-reference**: Link to by-example tutorials for syntax details
5. **Practice recognition**: Learn to spot patterns during code review

## Related Resources

- [By Example](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/by-example) - Code-first tutorials
- [Overview](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/overview) - Complete Java learning path
- [Quick Start](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/quick-start) - Get started quickly

Commit message:

fix(ayokoding-web): ensure Java by-example uses only standard library
Remove external library dependencies from by-example content:
- Example 44 (Jackson JSON): Moved to in-practice/json-and-api-integration.md
- Example 45 (JUnit 5): Unique patterns integrated into in-practice/test-driven-development.md
- Example 46 (Mockito): Unique patterns integrated into in-practice/test-driven-development.md

Create new in-practice content:
- json-and-api-integration.md: Jackson patterns, standard library alternatives, trade-offs
- cli-app.md: Comprehensive CLI application guide with picocli and GraalVM
- sql.md: SQL database integration with JDBC, HikariCP, and testing strategies

Enhance existing in-practice content:
- test-driven-development.md: Add display names, timeouts, and argument matchers sections
- _index.md: Add Integration & External Systems and Application Development sections
- overview.md: Document new integration patterns and application development topics

Update by-example numbering:
- Intermediate: Examples 47-62 renumbered to 44-59 (29 total)
- Advanced: Examples 63-85 renumbered to 60-82 (23 total)
- New total: 82 examples (30+29+23)

Achieves:
- 100% standard library compliance (all java.* imports)
- Within 75-85 example target
- Sequential numbering 1-82 (no gaps)
- External libraries moved to in-practice where appropriate
- Comprehensive guides for CLI apps and SQL databases

Breaking change: Example numbers shifted in intermediate and advanced.

apps/ayokoding-web/content/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/in-practice/overview.md, after:

---
title: "Overview"
date: 2025-12-12T00:00:00+07:00
draft: false
description: Practical guidance for applying Java concepts in real-world development
weight: 10000000
tags: ["java", "in-practice", "overview"]
---

## What is In-Practice Content?

In-practice content provides **conceptual guidance** for applying Java knowledge in real-world development scenarios. This section bridges the gap between learning syntax and building robust, maintainable applications.

## Focus Areas

### Anti-Patterns

Common mistakes and pitfalls to avoid in Java development. Learn to recognize problematic patterns before they become ingrained in your codebase.

**Topics covered:**

- Concurrency anti-patterns (thread leakage, race conditions, deadlocks)
- Resource management mistakes (unclosed resources, connection leaks)
- Design anti-patterns (god classes, primitive obsession, shotgun surgery)
- Performance anti-patterns (N+1 queries, premature optimization)
- Security anti-patterns (input validation, credential management)

### Integration Patterns

Working with external systems and data formats in production applications.

**Topics covered:**

- JSON processing with Jackson and alternatives
- SQL database integration with JDBC and connection pooling
- REST API client patterns
- Transaction management and data integrity

### Application Development

Building complete applications with Java.

**Topics covered:**

- Command-line applications with argument parsing
- Configuration management and exit codes
- Native compilation with GraalVM
- Testing strategies for different application types

### Future Topics

Additional in-practice content will cover:

- Best practices and idioms
- Design patterns in Java
- Performance optimization approaches

## How This Differs from By-Example

**In-practice content:**

- Focuses on **conceptual understanding** and **why** patterns emerge
- Uses illustrative code examples to show problems and solutions
- Emphasizes problem/solution format and comparison tables
- More narrative and explanatory

**By-example tutorials:**

- Focuses on **code-first learning** with heavy annotations
- Uses 1-2.25 comment density per code line
- Emphasizes incremental skill building through examples
- More code-centric and practical

## Getting the Most from In-Practice Content

1. **Read actively**: Consider how anti-patterns might appear in your code
2. **Compare examples**: Study both problematic and corrected versions
3. **Apply to your work**: Identify potential issues in existing codebases
4. **Cross-reference**: Link to by-example tutorials for syntax details
5. **Practice recognition**: Learn to spot patterns during code review

## Related Resources

- [By Example](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/by-example) - Code-first tutorials
- [Overview](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/overview) - Complete Java learning path
- [Quick Start](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/quick-start) - Get started quickly
