apps/ayokoding-web/content/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-language/elixir/tutorials/_index.md, before:

---
title: "Tutorials"
date: 2025-12-21T00:00:00+07:00
draft: false
weight: 100002
---

- [Overview](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-language/elixir/tutorials/overview)
- [Initial Setup](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-language/elixir/tutorials/initial-setup)
- [Quick Start](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-language/elixir/tutorials/quick-start)
- [Beginner](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-language/elixir/tutorials/beginner)
- [Intermediate](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-language/elixir/tutorials/intermediate)
- [Advanced](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-language/elixir/tutorials/advanced)
- [By Example](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-language/elixir/tutorials/by-example)
  - [Overview](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-language/elixir/tutorials/by-example/overview)
  - [Beginner](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-language/elixir/tutorials/by-example/beginner)
  - [Intermediate](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-language/elixir/tutorials/by-example/intermediate)
  - [Advanced](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-language/elixir/tutorials/by-example/advanced)

Commit message:

refactor(ayokoding-web): implement dual-path tutorial structure
Introduce by-concept and by-example organization for all programming
language tutorials (Elixir, Golang, Java, Kotlin, Python, Rust).
Foundational tutorials (Initial Setup, Quick Start) remain at root.

Changes:
- Move existing tutorials into by-concept/ subdirectories
- Add by-concept/_index.md navigation pages
- Update parent _index.md files with new structure
- Add Programming Language Tutorial Structure convention
- Update CLAUDE.md with tutorial structure guidance
- Update ayokoding-web link cache with verified URLs

apps/ayokoding-web/content/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-language/elixir/tutorials/_index.md, after:

---
title: "Tutorials"
date: 2025-12-21T00:00:00+07:00
draft: false
weight: 100002
description: Step-by-step learning path from installation to expert Elixir mastery
---

- [By Concept](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-language/elixir/tutorials/by-concept)
  - [Overview](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-language/elixir/tutorials/by-concept/overview)
  - [Beginner](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-language/elixir/tutorials/by-concept/beginner)
  - [Intermediate](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-language/elixir/tutorials/by-concept/intermediate)
  - [Advanced](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-language/elixir/tutorials/by-concept/advanced)
- [Initial Setup](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-language/elixir/tutorials/initial-setup)
- [Quick Start](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-language/elixir/tutorials/quick-start)
- [By Example](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-language/elixir/tutorials/by-example)
  - [Overview](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-language/elixir/tutorials/by-example/overview)
  - [Beginner](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-language/elixir/tutorials/by-example/beginner)
  - [Intermediate](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-language/elixir/tutorials/by-example/intermediate)
  - [Advanced](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-language/elixir/tutorials/by-example/advanced)
