apps/ayokoding-web/content/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/python/how-to/_index.md, before:

---
title: "How-To Guides"
date: 2025-12-17T10:54:44+07:00
draft: false
weight: 501
description: "Practical Python how-to guides for problem-solving"
tags: ["python", "how-to", "guides"]
categories: ["learn"]
---

- [Overview](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/python/how-to/overview)
- [How to Avoid Common Pitfalls](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/python/how-to/avoid-common-pitfalls)
- [How to Handle Errors Effectively](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/python/how-to/handle-errors-effectively)
- [How to Use Type Hints Effectively](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/python/how-to/use-type-hints-effectively)
- [How to Manage Dependencies and Environments](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/python/how-to/manage-dependencies-and-environments)
- [How to Use Collections Effectively](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/python/how-to/use-collections-effectively)
- [How to Write Pythonic Code](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/python/how-to/write-pythonic-code)
- [How to Handle Concurrency Properly](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/python/how-to/handle-concurrency-properly)
- [How to Organize Packages Properly](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/python/how-to/organize-packages-properly)
- [How to Write Effective Tests](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/python/how-to/write-effective-tests)
- [How to Handle Files and Resources](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/python/how-to/handle-files-and-resources)
- [How to Debug and Log Effectively](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/python/how-to/debug-and-log-effectively)
- [How to Work with Strings Effectively](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/python/how-to/work-with-strings-effectively)
- [How to Manage Configuration](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/python/how-to/manage-configuration)
- [How to Document Code Effectively](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/python/how-to/document-code-effectively)
- [How to Build CLI Applications](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/python/how-to/build-cli-applications)

Commit message:

feat(ayokoding): add complete Python tutorials and fix factual errors across all languages
Add comprehensive Python tutorial suite with 5-level progression and fix
factual accuracy issues across Golang, Python, and Java content.

Python additions:
- Add initial-setup.md (0-5% coverage, installation guide)
- Add quick-start.md (5-30% coverage, core syntax overview)
- Add beginner.md (0-60% coverage, comprehensive fundamentals)
- Add intermediate.md (60-85% coverage, production techniques)
- Add advanced.md (85-95% coverage, expert patterns)
- Add cookbook.md (practical recipes, 30+ examples)
- Restructure overview.md with full learning path details
- Update all _index.md files with complete tutorial links
- Standardize frontmatter (type: docs, layout: list)

Python factual fixes:
- Fix TypedDict comments (remove misleading required/optional annotations)
- Fix Pydantic import (use pydantic_settings.BaseSettings for v2)
- Update version references (3.10-3.12 → 3.12-3.14)
- Update prerequisite (Python 3.8+ → 3.9+ for zoneinfo)

Golang factual fixes:
- Remove non-existent sync.WaitGroup.Go() method example
- Update workspace version (go 1.23 → go 1.25)

Java factual fixes:
- Update JUnit version (5.10.0 → 5.11.0, correcting false 6.0.1 claim)
- Clarify virtual threads status (Java 21+ finalized, no preview flag)
- Add JDBC Class.forName() clarification (optional for JDBC 4.0+)
- Standardize frontmatter (type: docs, layout: list)

All changes verified with ayokoding-facts-checker showing zero critical
errors remaining. Content is production-ready.

apps/ayokoding-web/content/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/python/how-to/_index.md, after:

---
title: How-To Guides
date: 2025-12-17T10:54:44+07:00
draft: false
weight: 501
description: Practical recipes and patterns for solving real-world Python problems
---

- [Overview](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/python/how-to/overview)
- [Cookbook](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/python/how-to/cookbook)
- [How to Avoid Common Pitfalls](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/python/how-to/avoid-common-pitfalls)
- [How to Handle Errors Effectively](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/python/how-to/handle-errors-effectively)
- [How to Use Type Hints Effectively](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/python/how-to/use-type-hints-effectively)
- [How to Manage Dependencies and Environments](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/python/how-to/manage-dependencies-and-environments)
- [How to Use Collections Effectively](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/python/how-to/use-collections-effectively)
- [How to Write Pythonic Code](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/python/how-to/write-pythonic-code)
- [How to Handle Concurrency Properly](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/python/how-to/handle-concurrency-properly)
- [How to Organize Packages Properly](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/python/how-to/organize-packages-properly)
- [How to Write Effective Tests](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/python/how-to/write-effective-tests)
- [How to Handle Files and Resources](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/python/how-to/handle-files-and-resources)
- [How to Debug and Log Effectively](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/python/how-to/debug-and-log-effectively)
- [How to Work with Strings Effectively](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/python/how-to/work-with-strings-effectively)
- [How to Manage Configuration](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/python/how-to/manage-configuration)
- [How to Document Code Effectively](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/python/how-to/document-code-effectively)
- [How to Build CLI Applications](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/python/how-to/build-cli-applications)
