apps/ayokoding-web/content/en/learn/software-engineering/system-design/overview.md, before:

---
title: Overview
date: 2025-12-01T00:00:00+07:00
draft: false
weight: 10000
---

This directory contains hands-on system design study cases and tutorials. Each case walks through the design of a real-world system, covering architectural decisions, trade-offs, and implementation considerations.

## 🎯 Scope & Focus

These tutorials are **language-agnostic** and **tech-stack independent**:

- **High-level design**: Focus on system architecture, components, and interactions - not implementation code
- **Language-agnostic**: Principles apply regardless of programming language (Go, Java, Python, Node.js, etc.)
- **Tech-stack independent**: Concepts work with any technology stack (databases, message queues, caches, etc.)
- **Architecture-first**: Emphasis on design patterns, scalability strategies, and system trade-offs

You won't find specific code implementations here - instead, you'll learn how to design systems that can be implemented in any language or stack.

## 📏 Scaling Philosophy

Each study case covers **multiple scale levels** - not just planet-scale systems:

- **Startup scale** (0–1K users): Single server or small cluster, simple architecture, minimal infrastructure
- **Small scale** (1K–10K users): Horizontal scaling, database replication, basic load balancing
- **Medium scale** (10K–100K users): CDN, distributed caching, auto-scaling, consistent hashing
- **Large scale** (100K–1M users): Geo-replication, microservices, sharding, multi-region deployment
- **Planet scale** (1M+ users): Global distribution, eventual consistency, advanced automation, big data analytics

**Why multiple scales?**

- **Right-sizing**: Not every system needs planet-scale from day one
- **Cost-effective**: Over-engineering wastes resources and increases complexity
- **Progressive scaling**: Learn how systems evolve as they grow from startup to planet-scale
- **Trade-off awareness**: Different scales require different architectural decisions and techniques

Good system design is about choosing the **right scale** for your requirements, not always building for maximum scale.

**Scale categories based on**: [Omnistrate — Distributed System Design](https://blog.omnistrate.com/posts/30)

## 📋 Purpose

System design study cases help you:

- **Learn by doing**: Work through real-world design scenarios step-by-step
- **Understand trade-offs**: Explore different architectural approaches and their implications
- **Build intuition**: Develop practical experience with system design patterns
- **Prepare for interviews**: Practice common system design questions in a structured way

## 🎯 What Belongs Here

Study cases should be:

- **Scenario-based**: Start with a clear problem statement (e.g., "Design a URL shortener")
- **Step-by-step**: Guide the reader through the design process progressively
- **Architecture-focused**: Include concrete architectural decisions without implementation code
- **Technology-neutral**: Discuss components generically (e.g., "cache" not "Redis", "database" not "PostgreSQL")
- **Comprehensive**: Cover requirements, architecture, data models, APIs, scalability, and trade-offs

## 📚 Available Study Cases

- [**AI-Powered Personal Finance Advisor**](/en/learn/software-engineering/system-design/ai-personal-finance-advisor) - Design a system where users upload payment receipts and receive AI-generated financial insights, spending patterns, and budget recommendations

## 🏗️ Structure of a Study Case

Each study case typically includes:

1. **Problem Statement**: What system are we designing? What are the core requirements?
2. **Requirements Analysis**: Functional and non-functional requirements (scale, latency, availability)
3. **Capacity Estimation**: Back-of-the-envelope calculations to inform design decisions
   - QPS (queries per second) and traffic estimates
   - Storage requirements (data volume, growth rate)
   - Bandwidth and network requirements
   - Peak load calculations and capacity planning
4. **High-Level Design**: System architecture, major components, data flow
5. **Detailed Design**: Deep dive into critical components, data models, APIs
6. **Scalability Considerations**: How to scale from startup → small → medium → large → planet-scale
   - Architectural changes needed at each scale level (0–1K, 1K–10K, 10K–100K, 100K–1M, 1M+)
   - When to introduce caching, sharding, replication, distribution, CDN, microservices
   - Performance characteristics and bottlenecks at each scale
7. **Monitoring and Observability**: How to monitor system health and performance
   - Key metrics to track (latency, throughput, error rates, resource utilization)
   - Logging strategies (structured logging, log aggregation, retention policies)
   - Alerting and incident response (SLIs, SLOs, SLAs, on-call procedures)
   - Observability tools and dashboards (metrics, logs, traces, distributed tracing)
8. **Testing Strategies**: How to validate system behavior and resilience
   - Load testing (capacity planning, performance benchmarks)
   - Stress testing (finding breaking points, bottleneck identification)
   - Chaos engineering (failure injection, resilience testing)
   - Integration and end-to-end testing approaches
9. **Security & Compliance**: How to secure the system and meet regulatory requirements
   - Authentication and authorization (OAuth, JWT, RBAC, session management)
   - Data encryption (in transit: TLS/SSL, at rest: encryption keys, key management)
   - Input validation, sanitization, and protection against common attacks (XSS, SQL injection, CSRF)
   - DDoS protection, rate limiting, and API security
   - Compliance requirements (GDPR, PCI-DSS, HIPAA, SOC 2, data residency)
   - Security testing (penetration testing, vulnerability scanning, security audits)
10. **Disaster Recovery & Business Continuity**: How to handle failures and maintain availability
    - Backup strategies (frequency, retention policies, backup types: full/incremental/differential)
    - Disaster recovery plans (hot/warm/cold standby, multi-region failover)
    - RTO (Recovery Time Objective) and RPO (Recovery Point Objective) targets
    - Failover systems, redundancy, and high availability architecture
    - Data replication across regions and availability zones
    - Business continuity planning and incident response procedures
11. **Trade-offs and Alternatives**: Different approaches and their pros/cons at various scales
12. **Further Reading**: Links to related resources and real-world implementations

Commit message:

feat(ayokoding-web): restructure software engineering with architecture and system design sections
- Move architecture patterns to top-level software-engineering/architecture/
  - Add C4 Model section with comprehensive overview (256 lines)
  - Add Domain-Driven Design (DDD) section with comprehensive overview (400+ lines)
  - Add Finite State Machine (FSM) section with comprehensive overview (400+ lines)
  - Include architecture overview explaining all three patterns

- Reorganize system design content
  - Create cases/ subfolder for case studies
  - Move AI Personal Finance Advisor to cases/ folder
  - Add cases overview explaining progressive scaling philosophy

- Create comprehensive overview files for all sections
  - All overviews include: what/why/when to use, best practices, getting started
  - Technology-agnostic approach emphasized throughout
  - Cross-references between related content

- Update navigation structure
  - Add Architecture section to software-engineering/_index.md
  - Update all _index.md files with overview links
  - Fix all cross-references to reflect new structure
  - All links use absolute paths for consistency

Architecture and System Design are now peer sections under Software Engineering,
with Architecture focusing on patterns/methodologies and System Design on case studies.

apps/ayokoding-web/content/en/learn/software-engineering/system-design/overview.md, after:

---
title: Overview
date: 2025-12-01T00:00:00+07:00
draft: false
weight: 10000
---

This directory contains hands-on system design study cases and tutorials. Each case walks through the design of a real-world system, covering architectural decisions, trade-offs, and implementation considerations.

## 🎯 Scope & Focus

These tutorials are **language-agnostic** and **tech-stack independent**:

- **High-level design**: Focus on system architecture, components, and interactions - not implementation code
- **Language-agnostic**: Principles apply regardless of programming language (Go, Java, Python, Node.js, etc.)
- **Tech-stack independent**: Concepts work with any technology stack (databases, message queues, caches, etc.)
- **Architecture-first**: Emphasis on design patterns, scalability strategies, and system trade-offs

You won't find specific code implementations here - instead, you'll learn how to design systems that can be implemented in any language or stack.

## 📏 Scaling Philosophy

Each study case covers **multiple scale levels** - not just planet-scale systems:

- **Startup scale** (0–1K users): Single server or small cluster, simple architecture, minimal infrastructure
- **Small scale** (1K–10K users): Horizontal scaling, database replication, basic load balancing
- **Medium scale** (10K–100K users): CDN, distributed caching, auto-scaling, consistent hashing
- **Large scale** (100K–1M users): Geo-replication, microservices, sharding, multi-region deployment
- **Planet scale** (1M+ users): Global distribution, eventual consistency, advanced automation, big data analytics

**Why multiple scales?**

- **Right-sizing**: Not every system needs planet-scale from day one
- **Cost-effective**: Over-engineering wastes resources and increases complexity
- **Progressive scaling**: Learn how systems evolve as they grow from startup to planet-scale
- **Trade-off awareness**: Different scales require different architectural decisions and techniques

Good system design is about choosing the **right scale** for your requirements, not always building for maximum scale.

**Scale categories based on**: [Omnistrate — Distributed System Design](https://blog.omnistrate.com/posts/30)

## 📋 Purpose

System design study cases help you:

- **Learn by doing**: Work through real-world design scenarios step-by-step
- **Understand trade-offs**: Explore different architectural approaches and their implications
- **Build intuition**: Develop practical experience with system design patterns
- **Prepare for interviews**: Practice common system design questions in a structured way

## 🎯 What Belongs Here

Study cases should be:

- **Scenario-based**: Start with a clear problem statement (e.g., "Design a URL shortener")
- **Step-by-step**: Guide the reader through the design process progressively
- **Architecture-focused**: Include concrete architectural decisions without implementation code
- **Technology-neutral**: Discuss components generically (e.g., "cache" not "Redis", "database" not "PostgreSQL")
- **Comprehensive**: Cover requirements, architecture, data models, APIs, scalability, and trade-offs

## 📚 Content Organization

This section focuses on case studies and practical system design:

- [**Case Studies**](/en/learn/software-engineering/system-design/cases) - Work through real-world system design scenarios with progressive scaling from startup to planet-scale

For architectural patterns and methodologies, see [**Architecture**](/en/learn/software-engineering/architecture) section.

### Available Case Studies

- [**AI-Powered Personal Finance Advisor**](/en/learn/software-engineering/system-design/cases/ai-personal-finance-advisor) - Design a system where users upload payment receipts and receive AI-generated financial insights, spending patterns, and budget recommendations

## 🏗️ Structure of a Study Case

Each study case typically includes:

1. **Problem Statement**: What system are we designing? What are the core requirements?
2. **Requirements Analysis**: Functional and non-functional requirements (scale, latency, availability)
3. **Capacity Estimation**: Back-of-the-envelope calculations to inform design decisions
   - QPS (queries per second) and traffic estimates
   - Storage requirements (data volume, growth rate)
   - Bandwidth and network requirements
   - Peak load calculations and capacity planning
4. **High-Level Design**: System architecture, major components, data flow
5. **Detailed Design**: Deep dive into critical components, data models, APIs
6. **Scalability Considerations**: How to scale from startup → small → medium → large → planet-scale
   - Architectural changes needed at each scale level (0–1K, 1K–10K, 10K–100K, 100K–1M, 1M+)
   - When to introduce caching, sharding, replication, distribution, CDN, microservices
   - Performance characteristics and bottlenecks at each scale
7. **Monitoring and Observability**: How to monitor system health and performance
   - Key metrics to track (latency, throughput, error rates, resource utilization)
   - Logging strategies (structured logging, log aggregation, retention policies)
   - Alerting and incident response (SLIs, SLOs, SLAs, on-call procedures)
   - Observability tools and dashboards (metrics, logs, traces, distributed tracing)
8. **Testing Strategies**: How to validate system behavior and resilience
   - Load testing (capacity planning, performance benchmarks)
   - Stress testing (finding breaking points, bottleneck identification)
   - Chaos engineering (failure injection, resilience testing)
   - Integration and end-to-end testing approaches
9. **Security & Compliance**: How to secure the system and meet regulatory requirements
   - Authentication and authorization (OAuth, JWT, RBAC, session management)
   - Data encryption (in transit: TLS/SSL, at rest: encryption keys, key management)
   - Input validation, sanitization, and protection against common attacks (XSS, SQL injection, CSRF)
   - DDoS protection, rate limiting, and API security
   - Compliance requirements (GDPR, PCI-DSS, HIPAA, SOC 2, data residency)
   - Security testing (penetration testing, vulnerability scanning, security audits)
10. **Disaster Recovery & Business Continuity**: How to handle failures and maintain availability
    - Backup strategies (frequency, retention policies, backup types: full/incremental/differential)
    - Disaster recovery plans (hot/warm/cold standby, multi-region failover)
    - RTO (Recovery Time Objective) and RPO (Recovery Point Objective) targets
    - Failover systems, redundancy, and high availability architecture
    - Data replication across regions and availability zones
    - Business continuity planning and incident response procedures
11. **Trade-offs and Alternatives**: Different approaches and their pros/cons at various scales
12. **Further Reading**: Links to related resources and real-world implementations
