plans/backlog/2026-01-03__opencode-compatibility/requirements.md, before:

# Requirements: OpenCode Compatibility

## Objectives

### Primary Objectives

1. **Zero Breaking Changes**: Existing Claude Code functionality must remain intact
2. **Seamless Switching**: Developers can use either tool interchangeably
3. **Shared Configuration**: Maximize reuse of existing configurations where formats allow
4. **Minimal Duplication**: Avoid maintaining parallel configurations when possible

### Secondary Objectives

1. **Skills Portability Validation**: Confirm existing skills work with OpenCode
2. **Documentation Alignment**: Create AGENTS.md that complements CLAUDE.md
3. **Team Onboarding**: Enable new team members to choose their preferred tool

## User Stories

### US-01: Developer Switches to OpenCode

```gherkin
Feature: OpenCode Project Initialization

Scenario: First-time OpenCode user opens repository
  Given the developer has OpenCode installed
  And the repository has opencode.json configured
  When they run `opencode` in the project root
  Then OpenCode starts with anthropic/claude-sonnet-4-5 model
  And displays project instructions from AGENTS.md
  And lists available MCP servers (playwright, context7)
  And can invoke skills by name

Scenario: OpenCode user creates content
  Given OpenCode is running in the repository
  When the developer asks to create Hugo content
  Then OpenCode loads apps__ayokoding-web__developing-content skill
  And follows the same conventions as Claude Code
  And produces identical output quality
```

### US-02: Developer Uses Both Tools

```gherkin
Feature: Dual-Tool Development

Scenario: Developer alternates between tools
  Given the repository supports both Claude Code and OpenCode
  When the developer uses Claude Code for agent workflows
  And switches to OpenCode for general coding
  Then both tools respect the same project conventions
  And MCP servers are available in both
  And skills produce consistent behavior

Scenario: Team uses mixed tools
  Given some team members prefer Claude Code
  And some team members prefer OpenCode
  When they collaborate on the same codebase
  Then CLAUDE.md guides Claude Code users
  And AGENTS.md guides OpenCode users
  And both follow identical conventions
```

### US-03: MCP Server Sharing

```gherkin
Feature: MCP Server Configuration

Scenario: Playwright MCP works in both tools
  Given Playwright MCP is configured for Claude Code
  And equivalent configuration exists for OpenCode
  When either tool invokes browser automation
  Then the same Playwright server handles requests
  And browser_navigate, browser_snapshot work identically

Scenario: Context7 documentation lookup
  Given Context7 MCP is configured for both tools
  When either tool queries library documentation
  Then Context7 returns identical results
  And resolve-library-id, query-docs work consistently
```

### US-04: Skills Compatibility

```gherkin
Feature: Cross-Platform Skills

Scenario: OpenCode discovers Claude skills
  Given the repository has 19 skills in .claude/skills/
  When OpenCode initializes
  Then it discovers all skills from .claude/skills/*/SKILL.md
  And the skill tool lists all available skills
  And skills can be invoked by name

Scenario: Skill behavior matches
  Given the skill docs__applying-content-quality exists
  When Claude Code invokes the skill
  And OpenCode invokes the same skill
  Then both receive identical skill content
  And both produce equivalent quality output
```

## Functional Requirements

### FR-01: Configuration Files

| Requirement | Description                                             | Priority |
| ----------- | ------------------------------------------------------- | -------- |
| FR-01.1     | Create `opencode.json` with model and provider settings | Must     |
| FR-01.2     | Configure MCP servers in opencode.json format           | Must     |
| FR-01.3     | Set tool permissions matching Claude Code defaults      | Should   |
| FR-01.4     | Add schema reference for IDE autocomplete               | Should   |

### FR-02: Instructions File

| Requirement | Description                                   | Priority |
| ----------- | --------------------------------------------- | -------- |
| FR-02.1     | Create `AGENTS.md` at repository root         | Must     |
| FR-02.2     | Include essential project conventions         | Must     |
| FR-02.3     | Reference CLAUDE.md for comprehensive details | Should   |
| FR-02.4     | Keep AGENTS.md focused and concise (<10KB)    | Should   |

### FR-03: Agent Translation

| Requirement | Description                                       | Priority |
| ----------- | ------------------------------------------------- | -------- |
| FR-03.1     | Create `.opencode/agent/` directory               | Should   |
| FR-03.2     | Translate high-priority agents to OpenCode format | Could    |
| FR-03.3     | Document agent format differences                 | Should   |
| FR-03.4     | Create agent creation guide for OpenCode          | Could    |

### FR-04: Skills Validation

| Requirement | Description                                        | Priority |
| ----------- | -------------------------------------------------- | -------- |
| FR-04.1     | Verify all 19 skills load in OpenCode              | Must     |
| FR-04.2     | Test skill invocation works correctly              | Must     |
| FR-04.3     | Document any skill compatibility issues            | Should   |
| FR-04.4     | Fix skill naming if needed (lowercase requirement) | Must     |

## Non-Functional Requirements

### NFR-01: Maintainability

- Configurations should be easy to update
- Avoid duplicate content between CLAUDE.md and AGENTS.md
- Use references and links where possible

### NFR-02: Documentation

- Document which features are tool-specific
- Provide clear setup instructions for OpenCode users
- Explain the compatibility strategy in README

### NFR-03: Consistency

- Same project conventions apply regardless of tool
- Output quality should be indistinguishable
- Both tools should enforce identical standards

## Acceptance Criteria

### AC-01: OpenCode Initialization

```gherkin
Scenario: OpenCode starts successfully
  Given opencode.json exists with valid configuration
  And AGENTS.md exists with project instructions
  When the developer runs `opencode` command
  Then OpenCode initializes without errors
  And model is set to anthropic/claude-sonnet-4-5
  And MCP servers are listed as available
```

### AC-02: Skills Discovery

```gherkin
Scenario: All skills are discoverable
  Given 19 skills exist in .claude/skills/
  When OpenCode lists available skills
  Then all 19 skills appear in the list
  And skill descriptions match SKILL.md content
  And skills can be invoked successfully
```

### AC-03: MCP Server Connection

```gherkin
Scenario: MCP servers connect
  Given opencode.json has mcp configuration
  When OpenCode starts
  Then Playwright MCP server connects
  And Context7 MCP server connects
  And browser automation tools are available
```

### AC-04: Claude Code Unaffected

```gherkin
Scenario: Claude Code still works
  Given OpenCode configuration has been added
  When the developer runs `claude` command
  Then Claude Code works exactly as before
  And all agents load correctly
  And all skills function properly
  And MCP servers connect successfully
```

## Constraints

### Technical Constraints

1. **CRITICAL - Skill Naming Incompatibility**:
   - **Both Claude Code AND OpenCode require**: `[a-z0-9-]+` (lowercase alphanumeric with hyphens ONLY)
   - **Current skill names use underscores**: `docs__applying-content-quality`
   - **This is INVALID** - underscores are NOT allowed in either tool's spec
   - **ALL 19 skills MUST be renamed** before OpenCode compatibility
   - Example fix: `docs__applying-content-quality` → `docs-applying-content-quality`

2. **Agent Format**: OpenCode agents use different frontmatter schema
   - Cannot directly reuse Claude agent files
   - Must translate or create OpenCode-specific agents

3. **MCP Format**: Different JSON structures
   - Claude: `mcpServers.name.command` (string) + `args` (array)
   - OpenCode: `mcp.name.type` + `command` (array including args)

### Business Constraints

1. **No Disruption**: Existing Claude Code workflows must remain functional
2. **Team Choice**: Both tools should be equally viable options
3. **Maintenance Burden**: Minimize ongoing dual-tool maintenance effort

## Dependencies

### External Dependencies

- OpenCode CLI installed (`npm i -g @opencode/cli` or via releases)
- Node.js runtime for MCP servers
- MCP server packages (Playwright, Context7)

### Internal Dependencies

- Existing `.claude/` directory structure
- Current CLAUDE.md content
- Existing skill definitions

## Risks

### Risk-01: Skill Naming - CONFIRMED ISSUE

**Risk**: CONFIRMED - Both Claude Code AND OpenCode reject underscores in skill names
**Status**: Not a risk - this is a KNOWN REQUIREMENT
**Action Required**: Rename all 19 skills from `domain__skill-name` to `domain-skill-name`
**Impact**: High (requires renaming 19 skills, updating all references in agents and docs)

### Risk-02: Agent Translation Effort

**Risk**: Translating 40+ agents is significant effort
**Mitigation**: Start with subset; document format; consider automation
**Impact**: Low (agents are optional enhancement)

### Risk-03: Configuration Drift

**Risk**: Configurations may diverge over time
**Mitigation**: Document update procedures; use wow\_\_rules-checker
**Impact**: Medium (could cause inconsistent behavior)

### Risk-04: MCP Server Conflicts

**Risk**: Both tools might try to spawn same MCP server
**Mitigation**: Use different ports or process management
**Impact**: Low (unlikely concurrent use)

Commit message:

docs(plans): clarify single hyphen notation and add validation
Clarify that skill renaming requires SINGLE hyphens, not double hyphens,
and add comprehensive validation to prevent invalid patterns.

Changes:
- Emphasize "SINGLE hyphen -" not "double hyphen --" throughout plan
- Add validation in renaming script (Phase 0.1) to check for __ and --
- Add validation in SKILL.md update (Phase 0.3) to check name fields
- Add final comprehensive validation step (Phase 0.7) with detailed checks
- Update all example transformations to show NOT double hyphen

Validation added:
- Directory name validation (no __ or --)
- SKILL.md name field validation (regex match)
- Skill count verification (must be 19)
- Exit codes for CI/CD integration

Prevents:
- Accidentally using __ to -- replacement (invalid)
- Missing any skills during renaming
- Invalid skill names that violate [a-z0-9-]+ regex

plans/backlog/2026-01-03__opencode-compatibility/requirements.md, after:

# Requirements: OpenCode Compatibility

## Objectives

### Primary Objectives

1. **Zero Breaking Changes**: Existing Claude Code functionality must remain intact
2. **Seamless Switching**: Developers can use either tool interchangeably
3. **Shared Configuration**: Maximize reuse of existing configurations where formats allow
4. **Minimal Duplication**: Avoid maintaining parallel configurations when possible

### Secondary Objectives

1. **Skills Portability Validation**: Confirm existing skills work with OpenCode
2. **Documentation Alignment**: Create AGENTS.md that complements CLAUDE.md
3. **Team Onboarding**: Enable new team members to choose their preferred tool

## User Stories

### US-01: Developer Switches to OpenCode

```gherkin
Feature: OpenCode Project Initialization

Scenario: First-time OpenCode user opens repository
  Given the developer has OpenCode installed
  And the repository has opencode.json configured
  When they run `opencode` in the project root
  Then OpenCode starts with anthropic/claude-sonnet-4-5 model
  And displays project instructions from AGENTS.md
  And lists available MCP servers (playwright, context7)
  And can invoke skills by name

Scenario: OpenCode user creates content
  Given OpenCode is running in the repository
  When the developer asks to create Hugo content
  Then OpenCode loads apps__ayokoding-web__developing-content skill
  And follows the same conventions as Claude Code
  And produces identical output quality
```

### US-02: Developer Uses Both Tools

```gherkin
Feature: Dual-Tool Development

Scenario: Developer alternates between tools
  Given the repository supports both Claude Code and OpenCode
  When the developer uses Claude Code for agent workflows
  And switches to OpenCode for general coding
  Then both tools respect the same project conventions
  And MCP servers are available in both
  And skills produce consistent behavior

Scenario: Team uses mixed tools
  Given some team members prefer Claude Code
  And some team members prefer OpenCode
  When they collaborate on the same codebase
  Then CLAUDE.md guides Claude Code users
  And AGENTS.md guides OpenCode users
  And both follow identical conventions
```

### US-03: MCP Server Sharing

```gherkin
Feature: MCP Server Configuration

Scenario: Playwright MCP works in both tools
  Given Playwright MCP is configured for Claude Code
  And equivalent configuration exists for OpenCode
  When either tool invokes browser automation
  Then the same Playwright server handles requests
  And browser_navigate, browser_snapshot work identically

Scenario: Context7 documentation lookup
  Given Context7 MCP is configured for both tools
  When either tool queries library documentation
  Then Context7 returns identical results
  And resolve-library-id, query-docs work consistently
```

### US-04: Skills Compatibility

```gherkin
Feature: Cross-Platform Skills

Scenario: OpenCode discovers Claude skills
  Given the repository has 19 skills in .claude/skills/
  When OpenCode initializes
  Then it discovers all skills from .claude/skills/*/SKILL.md
  And the skill tool lists all available skills
  And skills can be invoked by name

Scenario: Skill behavior matches
  Given the skill docs__applying-content-quality exists
  When Claude Code invokes the skill
  And OpenCode invokes the same skill
  Then both receive identical skill content
  And both produce equivalent quality output
```

## Functional Requirements

### FR-01: Configuration Files

| Requirement | Description                                             | Priority |
| ----------- | ------------------------------------------------------- | -------- |
| FR-01.1     | Create `opencode.json` with model and provider settings | Must     |
| FR-01.2     | Configure MCP servers in opencode.json format           | Must     |
| FR-01.3     | Set tool permissions matching Claude Code defaults      | Should   |
| FR-01.4     | Add schema reference for IDE autocomplete               | Should   |

### FR-02: Instructions File

| Requirement | Description                                   | Priority |
| ----------- | --------------------------------------------- | -------- |
| FR-02.1     | Create `AGENTS.md` at repository root         | Must     |
| FR-02.2     | Include essential project conventions         | Must     |
| FR-02.3     | Reference CLAUDE.md for comprehensive details | Should   |
| FR-02.4     | Keep AGENTS.md focused and concise (<10KB)    | Should   |

### FR-03: Agent Translation

| Requirement | Description                                       | Priority |
| ----------- | ------------------------------------------------- | -------- |
| FR-03.1     | Create `.opencode/agent/` directory               | Should   |
| FR-03.2     | Translate high-priority agents to OpenCode format | Could    |
| FR-03.3     | Document agent format differences                 | Should   |
| FR-03.4     | Create agent creation guide for OpenCode          | Could    |

### FR-04: Skills Validation

| Requirement | Description                                        | Priority |
| ----------- | -------------------------------------------------- | -------- |
| FR-04.1     | Verify all 19 skills load in OpenCode              | Must     |
| FR-04.2     | Test skill invocation works correctly              | Must     |
| FR-04.3     | Document any skill compatibility issues            | Should   |
| FR-04.4     | Fix skill naming if needed (lowercase requirement) | Must     |

## Non-Functional Requirements

### NFR-01: Maintainability

- Configurations should be easy to update
- Avoid duplicate content between CLAUDE.md and AGENTS.md
- Use references and links where possible

### NFR-02: Documentation

- Document which features are tool-specific
- Provide clear setup instructions for OpenCode users
- Explain the compatibility strategy in README

### NFR-03: Consistency

- Same project conventions apply regardless of tool
- Output quality should be indistinguishable
- Both tools should enforce identical standards

## Acceptance Criteria

### AC-01: OpenCode Initialization

```gherkin
Scenario: OpenCode starts successfully
  Given opencode.json exists with valid configuration
  And AGENTS.md exists with project instructions
  When the developer runs `opencode` command
  Then OpenCode initializes without errors
  And model is set to anthropic/claude-sonnet-4-5
  And MCP servers are listed as available
```

### AC-02: Skills Discovery

```gherkin
Scenario: All skills are discoverable
  Given 19 skills exist in .claude/skills/
  When OpenCode lists available skills
  Then all 19 skills appear in the list
  And skill descriptions match SKILL.md content
  And skills can be invoked successfully
```

### AC-03: MCP Server Connection

```gherkin
Scenario: MCP servers connect
  Given opencode.json has mcp configuration
  When OpenCode starts
  Then Playwright MCP server connects
  And Context7 MCP server connects
  And browser automation tools are available
```

### AC-04: Claude Code Unaffected

```gherkin
Scenario: Claude Code still works
  Given OpenCode configuration has been added
  When the developer runs `claude` command
  Then Claude Code works exactly as before
  And all agents load correctly
  And all skills function properly
  And MCP servers connect successfully
```

## Constraints

### Technical Constraints

1. **CRITICAL - Skill Naming Incompatibility**:
   - **Both Claude Code AND OpenCode require**: `[a-z0-9-]+` (lowercase alphanumeric with hyphens ONLY)
   - **Current skill names use underscores**: `docs__applying-content-quality`
   - **Underscores (`_`) are NOT allowed** in either tool's spec
   - **Consecutive hyphens (`--`) are NOT allowed** in either tool's spec
   - **ALL 19 skills MUST be renamed** before OpenCode compatibility
   - **Correct fix**: Replace `__` with **SINGLE hyphen** `-`
   - Example: `docs__applying-content-quality` → `docs-applying-content-quality` (NOT `docs--applying-content-quality`)

2. **Agent Format**: OpenCode agents use different frontmatter schema
   - Cannot directly reuse Claude agent files
   - Must translate or create OpenCode-specific agents

3. **MCP Format**: Different JSON structures
   - Claude: `mcpServers.name.command` (string) + `args` (array)
   - OpenCode: `mcp.name.type` + `command` (array including args)

### Business Constraints

1. **No Disruption**: Existing Claude Code workflows must remain functional
2. **Team Choice**: Both tools should be equally viable options
3. **Maintenance Burden**: Minimize ongoing dual-tool maintenance effort

## Dependencies

### External Dependencies

- OpenCode CLI installed (`npm i -g @opencode/cli` or via releases)
- Node.js runtime for MCP servers
- MCP server packages (Playwright, Context7)

### Internal Dependencies

- Existing `.claude/` directory structure
- Current CLAUDE.md content
- Existing skill definitions

## Risks

### Risk-01: Skill Naming - CONFIRMED ISSUE

**Risk**: CONFIRMED - Both Claude Code AND OpenCode reject underscores in skill names
**Status**: Not a risk - this is a KNOWN REQUIREMENT
**Action Required**: Rename all 19 skills from `domain__skill-name` to `domain-skill-name`
**Impact**: High (requires renaming 19 skills, updating all references in agents and docs)

### Risk-02: Agent Translation Effort

**Risk**: Translating 40+ agents is significant effort
**Mitigation**: Start with subset; document format; consider automation
**Impact**: Low (agents are optional enhancement)

### Risk-03: Configuration Drift

**Risk**: Configurations may diverge over time
**Mitigation**: Document update procedures; use wow\_\_rules-checker
**Impact**: Medium (could cause inconsistent behavior)

### Risk-04: MCP Server Conflicts

**Risk**: Both tools might try to spawn same MCP server
**Mitigation**: Use different ports or process management
**Impact**: Low (unlikely concurrent use)
