apps/ayokoding-web/content/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/rust/_index.md, before:

---
title: Rust
date: 2025-12-19T00:00:00+07:00
draft: false
description: Complete learning path from zero to expert Rust development - organized using the Diátaxis framework
weight: 14000
type: docs
layout: list
---

- [Overview](overview)
- [Tutorials](tutorials)
  - [Tutorials Overview](tutorials/overview)
  - [Initial Setup for Rust](tutorials/initial-setup)
  - [Rust Quick Start](tutorials/quick-start)
  - [Complete Beginner's Guide to Rust](tutorials/beginner)
  - [Intermediate Rust](tutorials/intermediate)
  - [Advanced Rust](tutorials/advanced)
- [How-To Guides](how-to)
  - [How-To Guides Overview](how-to/overview)
  - [Rust Cookbook](how-to/cookbook)
  - [Working with Ownership](how-to/working-with-ownership)
  - [Error Handling Strategies](how-to/error-handling-strategies)
  - [Manage Dependencies with Cargo](how-to/manage-dependencies-cargo)
  - [Write Effective Tests](how-to/write-effective-tests)
  - [Work with Collections](how-to/work-with-collections)
  - [Implement Traits](how-to/implement-traits)
  - [Concurrent Programming](how-to/concurrent-programming)
  - [Async/Await Patterns](how-to/async-await-patterns)
  - [Build CLI Applications](how-to/build-cli-applications)
  - [REST API Development](how-to/rest-api-development)
  - [Database Integration](how-to/database-integration)
  - [Macro Development](how-to/macro-development)
  - [FFI Interoperability](how-to/ffi-interop)
  - [Performance Optimization](how-to/performance-optimization)
  - [WebAssembly Development](how-to/webassembly-development)
  - [Embedded Rust Development](how-to/embedded-rust)
  - [Advanced Type Patterns](how-to/advanced-type-patterns)
  - [Using Unsafe Rust Safely](how-to/unsafe-rust-safely)
- [Reference](reference)
  - [Reference Overview](reference/overview)
  - [Rust Cheat Sheet](reference/cheat-sheet)
  - [Rust Glossary](reference/glossary)
  - [Rust Resources](reference/resources)
- [Explanation](explanation)
  - [Explanation Overview](explanation/overview)
  - [Rust Best Practices and Design Principles](explanation/best-practices)
  - [Common Rust Anti-Patterns](explanation/anti-patterns)

Commit message:

feat(ayokoding): add 5 Rust how-to guides and expand cookbook to 5,010 lines
Add comprehensive Rust how-to guides:
- Async programming patterns (Tokio, async/await, futures, error handling)
- Code documentation with rustdoc (doc comments, examples, testing, publishing)
- Configuration management (config crates, environment variables, TOML/YAML)
- Debug and logging effectively (dbg! macro, log/env_logger, tracing framework)
- Testing patterns (unit tests, integration tests, property-based testing, benchmarking)

Expand cookbook from 2,243 to 5,010 lines (+2,760 lines, +30 recipes).
Remove forbidden tags field from cookbook frontmatter per Hugo conventions.
Fix weight values from 1000XXX to 10XX format per level-based weight system:
- debug-and-logging: 1000220 → 1020
- configuration-management: 1000230 → 1030
- code-documentation: 1000240 → 1040
- async-programming-patterns: 1000250 → 1050
- testing-patterns: 1000260 → 1060

All guides follow mandatory how-to pattern and comply with Hugo conventions.

Rust content now meets exceptional standard: 23 guides (18 → 23), 5,010-line cookbook.

apps/ayokoding-web/content/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/rust/_index.md, after:

---
title: Rust
date: 2025-12-19T00:00:00+07:00
draft: false
description: Complete learning path from zero to expert Rust development - organized using the Diátaxis framework
weight: 14000
type: docs
layout: list
---

- [Overview](overview)
- [Tutorials](tutorials)
  - [Tutorials Overview](tutorials/overview)
  - [Initial Setup for Rust](tutorials/initial-setup)
  - [Rust Quick Start](tutorials/quick-start)
  - [Complete Beginner's Guide to Rust](tutorials/beginner)
  - [Intermediate Rust](tutorials/intermediate)
  - [Advanced Rust](tutorials/advanced)
- [How-To Guides](how-to)
  - [How to Debug and Log Effectively](how-to/debug-and-logging)
  - [How to Manage Configuration](how-to/configuration-management)
  - [How to Document Code Effectively](how-to/code-documentation)
  - [How to Use Async Programming Patterns](how-to/async-programming-patterns)
  - [How to Implement Testing Strategies](how-to/testing-patterns)
  - [How-To Guides Overview](how-to/overview)
  - [Rust Cookbook](how-to/cookbook)
  - [Working with Ownership](how-to/working-with-ownership)
  - [Error Handling Strategies](how-to/error-handling-strategies)
  - [Manage Dependencies with Cargo](how-to/manage-dependencies-cargo)
  - [Write Effective Tests](how-to/write-effective-tests)
  - [Work with Collections](how-to/work-with-collections)
  - [Implement Traits](how-to/implement-traits)
  - [Concurrent Programming](how-to/concurrent-programming)
  - [Async/Await Patterns](how-to/async-await-patterns)
  - [Build CLI Applications](how-to/build-cli-applications)
  - [REST API Development](how-to/rest-api-development)
  - [Database Integration](how-to/database-integration)
  - [Macro Development](how-to/macro-development)
  - [FFI Interoperability](how-to/ffi-interop)
  - [Performance Optimization](how-to/performance-optimization)
  - [WebAssembly Development](how-to/webassembly-development)
  - [Embedded Rust Development](how-to/embedded-rust)
  - [Advanced Type Patterns](how-to/advanced-type-patterns)
  - [Using Unsafe Rust Safely](how-to/unsafe-rust-safely)
- [Reference](reference)
  - [Reference Overview](reference/overview)
  - [Rust Cheat Sheet](reference/cheat-sheet)
  - [Rust Glossary](reference/glossary)
  - [Rust Resources](reference/resources)
- [Explanation](explanation)
  - [Explanation Overview](explanation/overview)
  - [Rust Best Practices and Design Principles](explanation/best-practices)
  - [Common Rust Anti-Patterns](explanation/anti-patterns)
