apps/ayokoding-web/content/en/learn/software-engineering/platforms/overview.md, before:

---
title: Overview
weight: 10000
date: 2025-12-23T00:00:00+07:00
draft: false
description: Master cloud platforms, container orchestration, and infrastructure as code
---

Platforms provide the infrastructure foundation for deploying and running software applications at scale. This section covers cloud providers, container orchestration, and infrastructure automation.

## What You'll Learn

- **Cloud Providers** - AWS, Google Cloud, Azure fundamentals and services
- **Container Orchestration** - Kubernetes, Docker, container networking
- **Infrastructure as Code** - Terraform, Pulumi, CloudFormation
- **CI/CD Platforms** - GitHub Actions, GitLab CI, Jenkins, CircleCI
- **Serverless Computing** - Lambda, Cloud Functions, serverless architectures
- **Platform Engineering** - Building internal developer platforms

## Platform Categories

### Cloud Providers

- Amazon Web Services (AWS) ecosystem
- Google Cloud Platform (GCP) services
- Microsoft Azure infrastructure
- Multi-cloud and hybrid strategies

### Container & Orchestration

- Docker containerization
- Kubernetes cluster management
- Service meshes (Istio, Linkerd)
- Container registries and security

### Infrastructure Automation

- Terraform for multi-cloud IaC
- Pulumi with programming languages
- Ansible for configuration management
- GitOps workflows

### CI/CD & DevOps

- GitHub Actions workflows
- GitLab CI/CD pipelines
- Jenkins automation
- ArgoCD for continuous delivery

## Available Content

- **[Web](/en/learn/software-engineering/platforms/web)** - Web application frameworks and platforms

## Coming Soon

Additional content for container orchestration, infrastructure as code, and platform engineering is under development.

Commit message:

refactor(ayokoding-web): reorganize platform tutorials and enhance overviews
- Restructure tutorial organization:
  - Move Elixir Phoenix tutorials to tutorials/ subdirectory
  - Move Java Spring Boot tutorials to tutorials/ subdirectory
  - Add Linux platform with Shell tutorials
- Update navigation structure across all platform _index.md files
- Enhance overview content:
  - Add comprehensive Phoenix Framework overview
  - Add comprehensive Spring Boot overview
  - Update platforms overview with Linux platform
- Regenerate all navigation listings using navigation-maker

apps/ayokoding-web/content/en/learn/software-engineering/platforms/overview.md, after:

---
title: Overview
weight: 10000
date: 2025-12-23T00:00:00+07:00
draft: false
description: Master cloud platforms, container orchestration, and infrastructure as code
---

Platforms provide the infrastructure foundation for deploying and running software applications at scale. This section covers cloud providers, container orchestration, and infrastructure automation.

## What You'll Learn

- **Cloud Providers** - AWS, Google Cloud, Azure fundamentals and services
- **Container Orchestration** - Kubernetes, Docker, container networking
- **Infrastructure as Code** - Terraform, Pulumi, CloudFormation
- **CI/CD Platforms** - GitHub Actions, GitLab CI, Jenkins, CircleCI
- **Serverless Computing** - Lambda, Cloud Functions, serverless architectures
- **Platform Engineering** - Building internal developer platforms

## Platform Categories

### Cloud Providers

- Amazon Web Services (AWS) ecosystem
- Google Cloud Platform (GCP) services
- Microsoft Azure infrastructure
- Multi-cloud and hybrid strategies

### Container & Orchestration

- Docker containerization
- Kubernetes cluster management
- Service meshes (Istio, Linkerd)
- Container registries and security

### Infrastructure Automation

- Terraform for multi-cloud IaC
- Pulumi with programming languages
- Ansible for configuration management
- GitOps workflows

### CI/CD & DevOps

- GitHub Actions workflows
- GitLab CI/CD pipelines
- Jenkins automation
- ArgoCD for continuous delivery

## Available Content

- **[Web](/en/learn/software-engineering/platforms/web)** - Web application frameworks and platforms
- **[Linux](/en/learn/software-engineering/platforms/linux)** - Linux as a platform for development and deployment

## Coming Soon

Additional content for container orchestration, infrastructure as code, and platform engineering is under development.
