governance/development/workflow/anti-patterns.md, before:

# Anti-Patterns in Workflow Development

> **Companion Document**: For positive guidance on what to do, see [Best Practices](./best-practices.md)

## Overview

Understanding common mistakes in development workflows helps teams build more efficient, collaborative, and predictable systems. These anti-patterns cause merge conflicts, integration delays, and development friction.

## Purpose

This document provides:

- Common anti-patterns in workflow development
- Examples of problematic implementations
- Solutions and corrections for each anti-pattern
- Team collaboration and efficiency considerations

## Common Anti-Patterns

### Anti-Pattern 1: Long-Lived Feature Branches

**Problem**: Feature branches lasting weeks cause merge conflicts and integration delays.

**Bad Example:**

```bash
# Create feature branch
git checkout -b feature/user-dashboard

# Work for 3 weeks on branch
# ... hundreds of commits ...

# Try to merge - MASSIVE CONFLICTS!
git checkout main
git pull origin main
git merge feature/user-dashboard
# 200 conflicts in 50 files!
```

**Solution:**

```bash
# Work on main with feature flags
git checkout main

# Commit incremental changes daily
git commit -m "feat(dashboard): add user widget (flag OFF)"
git push origin main

# Enable when ready
# config: ENABLE_USER_DASHBOARD=true
```

**Rationale:**

- Daily integration prevents conflicts
- Code always on current main
- Feature flags control visibility
- Faster feedback

### Anti-Pattern 2: Large, Infrequent Commits

**Problem**: Committing large batches of changes infrequently.

**Bad Example:**

```bash
# Work for a week
# ... edit 100 files ...

# One massive commit
git add .
git commit -m "feat: implement entire user management system"
# 5000 lines changed!
```

**Solution:**

```bash
# Day 1
git commit -m "feat(user): add User model"
git commit -m "feat(user): add validation"

# Day 2
git commit -m "feat(user): add CRUD endpoints"
git commit -m "test(user): add integration tests"
```

**Rationale:**

- Small commits easier to review
- Clear history
- Easier to revert
- Faster feedback

### Anti-Pattern 3: Vague Commit Messages

**Problem**: Unclear commit messages that don't explain changes.

**Bad Example:**

```bash
git commit -m "updates"
git commit -m "fix"
git commit -m "WIP"
git commit -m "changes"
git commit -m "asdf"
```

**Solution:**

```bash
git commit -m "feat(auth): add JWT token validation"
git commit -m "fix(ui): resolve button alignment on mobile"
git commit -m "docs(api): update authentication endpoints"
```

**Rationale:**

- Clear commit purpose
- Searchable history
- Automated changelog
- Better collaboration

### Anti-Pattern 4: Skipping Feature Flags for Incomplete Work

**Problem**: Hiding incomplete features in long-lived branches instead of using flags.

**Bad Example:**

```bash
# Hide incomplete work in branch (DO NOT DO THIS)
git checkout -b feature/new-payment-flow
# Work for 2 months on branch
# Never integrated until "complete"
```

**Solution:**

```javascript
// Hide incomplete work with flags
const FEATURES = {
  NEW_PAYMENT_FLOW: process.env.ENABLE_NEW_PAYMENT === "true",
};

// Commit to main immediately, flag OFF in production
if (FEATURES.NEW_PAYMENT_FLOW) {
  return renderNewPayment(); // Incomplete
} else {
  return renderOldPayment(); // Production
}
```

**Rationale:**

- Code integrated immediately
- No merge conflicts
- Can test in staging
- Toggle without deployment

### Anti-Pattern 5: Premature Optimization

**Problem**: Optimizing before implementation works.

**Bad Example:**

```markdown
## Implementation Plan (WRONG)

1. Design complex caching system
2. Implement micro-optimizations
3. Build feature (maybe it works?)
```

**Solution:**

```markdown
## Implementation Plan (CORRECT)

1. Make it work (basic implementation)
2. Make it right (refactor, organize)
3. Make it fast (profile, optimize)
```

**Rationale:**

- Working code first
- Avoid wasted optimization
- Measure before optimizing
- Clearer progression

### Anti-Pattern 6: Unpinned Dependencies

**Problem**: Not locking dependency versions causes "works on my machine" issues.

**Bad Example:**

```json
// package.json
{
  "dependencies": {
    "react": "^18.0.0"  // Unpinned - different versions!
  }
}

// .gitignore
package-lock.json  # NOT COMMITTED - WRONG!
```

**Solution:**

```json
// package.json
{
  "volta": {
    "node": "24.11.1",
    "npm": "11.6.3"
  },
  "dependencies": {
    "react": "18.2.0"  // Exact version
  }
}

// Commit package-lock.json
git add package-lock.json
```

**Rationale:**

- Consistent builds
- No version surprises
- Reproducible CI/CD
- Reliable deployments

### Anti-Pattern 7: Ignoring Broken CI

**Problem**: Pushing code that breaks CI and not fixing immediately.

**Bad Example:**

```bash
git push origin main
# CI fails with test failures

# "I'll fix it later" (BLOCKS EVERYONE!)
# Team can't deploy for hours/days
```

**Solution:**

```bash
git push origin main
# CI fails

# Fix immediately OR revert
git revert HEAD
git push origin main
# CI green again - team unblocked
```

**Rationale:**

- Broken main blocks everyone
- Fast feedback required
- Team productivity
- Quality gate

### Anti-Pattern 8: Mixed Concerns in Single Commit

**Problem**: Combining unrelated changes in one commit.

**Bad Example:**

```bash
git commit -m "feat: add user dashboard and fix typos and update docs"
# Changed: API code, UI code, documentation, tests, configs
# All different domains in one commit!
```

**Solution:**

```bash
git commit -m "feat(api): add user endpoints"
git commit -m "feat(ui): add user dashboard"
git commit -m "docs(api): document user endpoints"
git commit -m "fix(docs): correct typos in README"
```

**Rationale:**

- Easier to review
- Easier to revert specific changes
- Clear history by domain
- Better git log

### Anti-Pattern 9: Hardcoded Environment Configuration

**Problem**: Hardcoding production values in code.

**Bad Example:**

```javascript
// DO NOT DO THIS
const DB_URL = "prod-db.example.com";
const API_KEY = "sk_live_abc123xyz";

// Committed to git - security issue!
// Can't run locally - wrong database!
```

**Solution:**

```javascript
// config.js
const DB_URL = process.env.DATABASE_URL;
const API_KEY = process.env.API_KEY;

// .env.example (committed)
DATABASE_URL=
API_KEY=

// .env (gitignored, local values)
DATABASE_URL=localhost:5432
API_KEY=sk_test_local
```

**Rationale:**

- No secrets in code
- Environment-specific config
- Safe local development
- 12-factor app compliance

### Anti-Pattern 10: Skipping Local Testing

**Problem**: Relying on CI to discover test failures.

**Bad Example:**

```bash
# Make changes
# ... edit files ...

# Skip testing locally
git commit -m "feat: add feature"
git push

# Wait 5 minutes for CI to fail
# Realize simple test failure could have been caught locally
```

**Solution:**

```bash
# Make changes
# ... edit files ...

# Test locally FIRST
npm test
npm run lint

# All green - commit
git commit -m "feat: add feature"
git push
```

**Rationale:**

- Fast feedback (seconds vs minutes)
- Respect team's time
- Catch simple issues early
- Higher quality commits

## Summary of Anti-Patterns

| Anti-Pattern               | Problem                     | Solution                        |
| -------------------------- | --------------------------- | ------------------------------- |
| **Long-Lived Branches**    | Merge conflicts, delays     | Work on main with feature flags |
| **Large Commits**          | Hard to review, unclear     | Small, frequent commits         |
| **Vague Messages**         | Unclear history             | Conventional Commits            |
| **No Feature Flags**       | Branch complexity           | Hide incomplete with flags      |
| **Premature Optimization** | Wasted effort               | Work → right → fast             |
| **Unpinned Dependencies**  | Inconsistent builds         | Lock versions, commit lock file |
| **Ignoring Broken CI**     | Blocks team                 | Fix or revert immediately       |
| **Mixed Concerns**         | Confusing commits           | Split by domain                 |
| **Hardcoded Config**       | Security issues, inflexible | Environment variables           |
| **Skipping Local Tests**   | Slow feedback               | Test before pushing             |

## Related Documentation

- [Trunk Based Development Convention](./trunk-based-development.md) - Complete TBD workflow
- [Commit Message Convention](./commit-messages.md) - Conventional Commits guide
- [Implementation Workflow Convention](./implementation.md) - Three-stage methodology
- [Reproducible Environments Convention](./reproducible-environments.md) - Environment practices
- [Best Practices](./best-practices.md) - Recommended patterns

## Conclusion

Avoiding these anti-patterns ensures:

- Fast integration and feedback
- Clear, searchable history
- No merge conflict nightmares
- Reproducible builds
- Green CI at all times
- Secure configuration
- Efficient collaboration
- High-quality commits
- Team productivity
- Predictable development

When implementing workflows, ask: **Am I adding collaboration or friction?** If friction, refactor to follow workflow development best practices.

## Principles Applied

- **Simplicity Over Complexity**: Single branch, small commits, simple workflow
- **Automation Over Manual**: CI enforcement, automated testing
- **Reproducibility First**: Pinned dependencies, environment config
- **Explicit Over Implicit**: Clear commit messages, documented workflow

Commit message:

refactor(governance): complete repository rules validation with zero findings
Executed repository-wide governance validation in OCD mode through 4
iterations, achieving zero findings across all criticality levels.

Iteration 1 - Agent Duplication Cleanup:
- Remove Workflow Integration boilerplate from 14 checker agents (~140 lines)
- Remove Tool Usage sections from all 45 agents (~360-540 lines)
- Simplify verbose skill references to concise format (19 agents)
- Add Vision Supported section to deliberate-problem-solving principle

Iteration 2 - Traceability Fixes:
- Add Principles Implemented section to software-design-reference convention
- Add Conventions Implemented section to skill-context-architecture practice

Iteration 3 - Content & Reference Cleanup:
- Remove time estimates from tutorial/general.md convention (5 instances)
- Move template skill (repo-multi-file-template) to docs/reference/templates/
- Fix broken principle references in 11 prog-lang docs
  (remove security-first, quality-first, measure-first-optimize-later)

Iteration 4 - Final Cleanup:
- Remove 2 remaining broken principle references from platform-web docs
- Add traceability sections to 12 companion documents
  (best-practices.md and anti-patterns.md in governance/development/)

Impact:
- 122 files changed
- 332 insertions, 1378 deletions
- Net reduction: 1046 lines
- Repository governance now fully compliant with zero validation findings

Validation: repo-governance-checker (4 iterations)

governance/development/workflow/anti-patterns.md, after:

# Anti-Patterns in Workflow Development

> **Companion Document**: For positive guidance on what to do, see [Best Practices](./best-practices.md)

## Overview

## Principles Respected

This companion document respects:

- **[Simplicity Over Complexity](../../principles/general/simplicity-over-complexity.md)**: Provides practical examples of simple vs complex approaches
- **[Explicit Over Implicit](../../principles/software-engineering/explicit-over-implicit.md)**: Makes patterns and anti-patterns explicit through clear examples

## Conventions Implemented/Respected

This companion document supports the conventions in this directory by providing practical examples and guidance.

Understanding common mistakes in development workflows helps teams build more efficient, collaborative, and predictable systems. These anti-patterns cause merge conflicts, integration delays, and development friction.

## Purpose

## Principles Respected

This companion document respects:

- **[Simplicity Over Complexity](../../principles/general/simplicity-over-complexity.md)**: Provides practical examples of simple vs complex approaches
- **[Explicit Over Implicit](../../principles/software-engineering/explicit-over-implicit.md)**: Makes patterns and anti-patterns explicit through clear examples

## Conventions Implemented/Respected

This companion document supports the conventions in this directory by providing practical examples and guidance.

This document provides:

- Common anti-patterns in workflow development
- Examples of problematic implementations
- Solutions and corrections for each anti-pattern
- Team collaboration and efficiency considerations

## Common Anti-Patterns

### Anti-Pattern 1: Long-Lived Feature Branches

**Problem**: Feature branches lasting weeks cause merge conflicts and integration delays.

**Bad Example:**

```bash
# Create feature branch
git checkout -b feature/user-dashboard

# Work for 3 weeks on branch
# ... hundreds of commits ...

# Try to merge - MASSIVE CONFLICTS!
git checkout main
git pull origin main
git merge feature/user-dashboard
# 200 conflicts in 50 files!
```

**Solution:**

```bash
# Work on main with feature flags
git checkout main

# Commit incremental changes daily
git commit -m "feat(dashboard): add user widget (flag OFF)"
git push origin main

# Enable when ready
# config: ENABLE_USER_DASHBOARD=true
```

**Rationale:**

- Daily integration prevents conflicts
- Code always on current main
- Feature flags control visibility
- Faster feedback

### Anti-Pattern 2: Large, Infrequent Commits

**Problem**: Committing large batches of changes infrequently.

**Bad Example:**

```bash
# Work for a week
# ... edit 100 files ...

# One massive commit
git add .
git commit -m "feat: implement entire user management system"
# 5000 lines changed!
```

**Solution:**

```bash
# Day 1
git commit -m "feat(user): add User model"
git commit -m "feat(user): add validation"

# Day 2
git commit -m "feat(user): add CRUD endpoints"
git commit -m "test(user): add integration tests"
```

**Rationale:**

- Small commits easier to review
- Clear history
- Easier to revert
- Faster feedback

### Anti-Pattern 3: Vague Commit Messages

**Problem**: Unclear commit messages that don't explain changes.

**Bad Example:**

```bash
git commit -m "updates"
git commit -m "fix"
git commit -m "WIP"
git commit -m "changes"
git commit -m "asdf"
```

**Solution:**

```bash
git commit -m "feat(auth): add JWT token validation"
git commit -m "fix(ui): resolve button alignment on mobile"
git commit -m "docs(api): update authentication endpoints"
```

**Rationale:**

- Clear commit purpose
- Searchable history
- Automated changelog
- Better collaboration

### Anti-Pattern 4: Skipping Feature Flags for Incomplete Work

**Problem**: Hiding incomplete features in long-lived branches instead of using flags.

**Bad Example:**

```bash
# Hide incomplete work in branch (DO NOT DO THIS)
git checkout -b feature/new-payment-flow
# Work for 2 months on branch
# Never integrated until "complete"
```

**Solution:**

```javascript
// Hide incomplete work with flags
const FEATURES = {
  NEW_PAYMENT_FLOW: process.env.ENABLE_NEW_PAYMENT === "true",
};

// Commit to main immediately, flag OFF in production
if (FEATURES.NEW_PAYMENT_FLOW) {
  return renderNewPayment(); // Incomplete
} else {
  return renderOldPayment(); // Production
}
```

**Rationale:**

- Code integrated immediately
- No merge conflicts
- Can test in staging
- Toggle without deployment

### Anti-Pattern 5: Premature Optimization

**Problem**: Optimizing before implementation works.

**Bad Example:**

```markdown
## Implementation Plan (WRONG)

1. Design complex caching system
2. Implement micro-optimizations
3. Build feature (maybe it works?)
```

**Solution:**

```markdown
## Implementation Plan (CORRECT)

1. Make it work (basic implementation)
2. Make it right (refactor, organize)
3. Make it fast (profile, optimize)
```

**Rationale:**

- Working code first
- Avoid wasted optimization
- Measure before optimizing
- Clearer progression

### Anti-Pattern 6: Unpinned Dependencies

**Problem**: Not locking dependency versions causes "works on my machine" issues.

**Bad Example:**

```json
// package.json
{
  "dependencies": {
    "react": "^18.0.0"  // Unpinned - different versions!
  }
}

// .gitignore
package-lock.json  # NOT COMMITTED - WRONG!
```

**Solution:**

```json
// package.json
{
  "volta": {
    "node": "24.11.1",
    "npm": "11.6.3"
  },
  "dependencies": {
    "react": "18.2.0"  // Exact version
  }
}

// Commit package-lock.json
git add package-lock.json
```

**Rationale:**

- Consistent builds
- No version surprises
- Reproducible CI/CD
- Reliable deployments

### Anti-Pattern 7: Ignoring Broken CI

**Problem**: Pushing code that breaks CI and not fixing immediately.

**Bad Example:**

```bash
git push origin main
# CI fails with test failures

# "I'll fix it later" (BLOCKS EVERYONE!)
# Team can't deploy for hours/days
```

**Solution:**

```bash
git push origin main
# CI fails

# Fix immediately OR revert
git revert HEAD
git push origin main
# CI green again - team unblocked
```

**Rationale:**

- Broken main blocks everyone
- Fast feedback required
- Team productivity
- Quality gate

### Anti-Pattern 8: Mixed Concerns in Single Commit

**Problem**: Combining unrelated changes in one commit.

**Bad Example:**

```bash
git commit -m "feat: add user dashboard and fix typos and update docs"
# Changed: API code, UI code, documentation, tests, configs
# All different domains in one commit!
```

**Solution:**

```bash
git commit -m "feat(api): add user endpoints"
git commit -m "feat(ui): add user dashboard"
git commit -m "docs(api): document user endpoints"
git commit -m "fix(docs): correct typos in README"
```

**Rationale:**

- Easier to review
- Easier to revert specific changes
- Clear history by domain
- Better git log

### Anti-Pattern 9: Hardcoded Environment Configuration

**Problem**: Hardcoding production values in code.

**Bad Example:**

```javascript
// DO NOT DO THIS
const DB_URL = "prod-db.example.com";
const API_KEY = "sk_live_abc123xyz";

// Committed to git - security issue!
// Can't run locally - wrong database!
```

**Solution:**

```javascript
// config.js
const DB_URL = process.env.DATABASE_URL;
const API_KEY = process.env.API_KEY;

// .env.example (committed)
DATABASE_URL=
API_KEY=

// .env (gitignored, local values)
DATABASE_URL=localhost:5432
API_KEY=sk_test_local
```

**Rationale:**

- No secrets in code
- Environment-specific config
- Safe local development
- 12-factor app compliance

### Anti-Pattern 10: Skipping Local Testing

**Problem**: Relying on CI to discover test failures.

**Bad Example:**

```bash
# Make changes
# ... edit files ...

# Skip testing locally
git commit -m "feat: add feature"
git push

# Wait 5 minutes for CI to fail
# Realize simple test failure could have been caught locally
```

**Solution:**

```bash
# Make changes
# ... edit files ...

# Test locally FIRST
npm test
npm run lint

# All green - commit
git commit -m "feat: add feature"
git push
```

**Rationale:**

- Fast feedback (seconds vs minutes)
- Respect team's time
- Catch simple issues early
- Higher quality commits

## Summary of Anti-Patterns

| Anti-Pattern               | Problem                     | Solution                        |
| -------------------------- | --------------------------- | ------------------------------- |
| **Long-Lived Branches**    | Merge conflicts, delays     | Work on main with feature flags |
| **Large Commits**          | Hard to review, unclear     | Small, frequent commits         |
| **Vague Messages**         | Unclear history             | Conventional Commits            |
| **No Feature Flags**       | Branch complexity           | Hide incomplete with flags      |
| **Premature Optimization** | Wasted effort               | Work → right → fast             |
| **Unpinned Dependencies**  | Inconsistent builds         | Lock versions, commit lock file |
| **Ignoring Broken CI**     | Blocks team                 | Fix or revert immediately       |
| **Mixed Concerns**         | Confusing commits           | Split by domain                 |
| **Hardcoded Config**       | Security issues, inflexible | Environment variables           |
| **Skipping Local Tests**   | Slow feedback               | Test before pushing             |

## Related Documentation

- [Trunk Based Development Convention](./trunk-based-development.md) - Complete TBD workflow
- [Commit Message Convention](./commit-messages.md) - Conventional Commits guide
- [Implementation Workflow Convention](./implementation.md) - Three-stage methodology
- [Reproducible Environments Convention](./reproducible-environments.md) - Environment practices
- [Best Practices](./best-practices.md) - Recommended patterns

## Conclusion

Avoiding these anti-patterns ensures:

- Fast integration and feedback
- Clear, searchable history
- No merge conflict nightmares
- Reproducible builds
- Green CI at all times
- Secure configuration
- Efficient collaboration
- High-quality commits
- Team productivity
- Predictable development

When implementing workflows, ask: **Am I adding collaboration or friction?** If friction, refactor to follow workflow development best practices.

## Principles Applied

- **Simplicity Over Complexity**: Single branch, small commits, simple workflow
- **Automation Over Manual**: CI enforcement, automated testing
- **Reproducibility First**: Pinned dependencies, environment config
- **Explicit Over Implicit**: Clear commit messages, documented workflow
