governance/development/workflow/best-practices.md, before:

# Best Practices for Workflow Development

> **Companion Document**: For common mistakes to avoid, see [Anti-Patterns](./anti-patterns.md)

## Overview

This document outlines best practices for development workflows, including Trunk Based Development, implementation methodology, commit messages, and reproducible environments. Following these practices ensures efficient, predictable, and high-quality development.

## Purpose

Provide actionable guidance for:

- Git workflow execution
- Implementation progression
- Commit message authoring
- Environment reproducibility
- Development process standards

## Best Practices

### Practice 1: Commit Directly to Main

**Principle**: Default to committing on main branch, use branches only when necessary.

**Good Example:**

```bash
# Work on main
git checkout main
git pull origin main

# Make small change
# ... edit files ...
npm test

# Commit to main
git add .
git commit -m "feat(auth): add email validation"
git push origin main
```

**Bad Example:**

```bash
# Creating branch for every task (unnecessary)
git checkout -b feature/tiny-typo-fix
# ... fix typo ...
git commit -m "fix typo"
# Wait days for PR review for one-line change
```

**Rationale:**

- Simplifies workflow
- Faster integration
- No merge conflicts from long-lived branches
- Continuous integration by default

### Practice 2: Make Small, Frequent Commits

**Principle**: Break work into small, atomic commits multiple times per day.

**Good Example:**

```bash
# Day 1
git commit -m "feat(auth): add User model"
git commit -m "feat(auth): add password hashing utility"
git commit -m "test(auth): add User model tests"

# Day 2
git commit -m "feat(auth): add login endpoint"
git commit -m "test(auth): add login endpoint tests"
```

**Bad Example:**

```bash
# One massive commit after a week
git commit -m "feat(auth): complete authentication system"
# 5000 lines changed across 50 files!
```

**Rationale:**

- Easier code review
- Easier to revert if needed
- Clear history
- Faster feedback

### Practice 3: Use Conventional Commits

**Principle**: Follow conventional commit format for clear, parseable history.

**Good Example:**

```bash
git commit -m "feat(api): add user registration endpoint"
git commit -m "fix(ui): resolve button alignment issue"
git commit -m "docs(readme): update installation instructions"
git commit -m "refactor(auth): extract validation logic"
```

**Bad Example:**

```bash
git commit -m "updates"
git commit -m "fix stuff"
git commit -m "WIP"
git commit -m "asdf"
```

**Rationale:**

- Clear commit purpose
- Automated changelog generation
- Easy to search history
- Semantic versioning support

### Practice 4: Use Feature Flags Instead of Long-Lived Branches

**Principle**: Hide incomplete work with feature flags, not branches.

**Good Example:**

```javascript
// config/features.js
const FEATURES = {
  NEW_DASHBOARD: process.env.ENABLE_NEW_DASHBOARD === "true",
};

// In code
if (FEATURES.NEW_DASHBOARD) {
  return renderNewDashboard(); // Incomplete, hidden in production
} else {
  return renderOldDashboard(); // Production-ready
}
```

**Bad Example:**

```bash
# Long-lived feature branch (DO NOT DO THIS)
git checkout -b feature/new-dashboard
# ... work for 2 weeks on branch ...
# Massive merge conflicts when ready to merge!
```

**Rationale:**

- Code integrated immediately
- No merge conflicts
- Can toggle features without deployment
- Gradual rollouts

### Practice 5: Implement in Three Stages

**Principle**: Make it work → Make it right → Make it fast.

**Good Example:**

```markdown
## Stage 1: Make it work

- Implement basic functionality
- Get tests passing
- Commit working code

## Stage 2: Make it right

- Refactor for clarity
- Improve code organization
- Add documentation

## Stage 3: Make it fast

- Profile for bottlenecks
- Optimize hot paths
- Measure improvements
```

**Bad Example:**

```markdown
# Premature optimization (DO NOT DO THIS)

## Stage 1: Make it fast

- Optimize before implementation
- Complex micro-optimizations
- Code that doesn't work yet
```

**Rationale:**

- Working code first
- Avoid premature optimization
- Incremental improvement
- Clear progression

### Practice 6: Pin Dependencies for Reproducibility

**Principle**: Lock versions using package-lock.json and Volta.

**Good Example:**

```json
// package.json
{
  "volta": {
    "node": "24.11.1",
    "npm": "11.6.3"
  }
}

// Committed: package-lock.json (exact versions)
```

**Bad Example:**

```json
// package.json
{
  "dependencies": {
    "react": "^18.0.0"  // Unpinned - different versions on different machines!
  }
}

// .gitignore
package-lock.json  # NOT COMMITTED - WRONG!
```

**Rationale:**

- Consistent builds across machines
- No "works on my machine" issues
- Reproducible CI/CD
- Reliable dependency versions

### Practice 7: Keep CI Green at All Times

**Principle**: Never commit code that breaks CI, fix immediately if broken.

**Good Example:**

```bash
# Before pushing
npm test  # Verify tests pass
npm run lint  # Verify linting passes
npm run build  # Verify build succeeds

git push origin main

# If CI fails after push
git revert HEAD  # OR fix immediately
```

**Bad Example:**

```bash
git push origin main
# CI fails
# "I'll fix it later" (BLOCKS EVERYONE!)
```

**Rationale:**

- Broken main blocks everyone
- Fast feedback loop
- Team productivity
- Quality gate enforcement

### Practice 8: Use Environment-Specific Configuration

**Principle**: Different settings for development vs production.

**Good Example:**

```bash
# Development
NODE_ENV=development npm run dev

# Production
NODE_ENV=production npm run build

# .env.example (committed)
DATABASE_URL=
API_KEY=
```

**Bad Example:**

```bash
# Same config everywhere (DO NOT DO THIS)
const DB_URL = "production-db.example.com";  # Hardcoded!
```

**Rationale:**

- Safe local development
- No production credentials in code
- Environment-specific behavior
- Follows 12-factor app principles

### Practice 9: Split Commits by Domain

**Principle**: Separate concerns in different commits.

**Good Example:**

```bash
git commit -m "feat(api): add user endpoints"
git commit -m "feat(ui): add user profile page"
git commit -m "docs(api): document user endpoints"
```

**Bad Example:**

```bash
git commit -m "feat: add user functionality"
# 1000 lines: API + UI + docs + tests all in one commit
```

**Rationale:**

- Easier to review
- Easier to revert specific changes
- Clear history by domain
- Better git log navigation

### Practice 10: Test Before Committing

**Principle**: Run tests locally before every commit.

**Good Example:**

```bash
# Make changes
# ... edit files ...

# Test before committing
npm test
npm run lint

# All green - commit
git commit -m "feat(api): add validation"
```

**Bad Example:**

```bash
# Make changes
git commit -m "feat: add stuff"
git push

# Wait for CI to tell you tests failed (SLOW FEEDBACK!)
```

**Rationale:**

- Fast feedback loop
- Catch issues early
- Respect team's time
- Green CI

## Related Documentation

- [Trunk Based Development Convention](./trunk-based-development.md) - Complete TBD workflow
- [Commit Message Convention](./commit-messages.md) - Conventional Commits guide
- [Implementation Workflow Convention](./implementation.md) - Three-stage methodology
- [Reproducible Environments Convention](./reproducible-environments.md) - Environment practices
- [Anti-Patterns](./anti-patterns.md) - Common mistakes to avoid

## Summary

Following these best practices ensures:

1. Commit directly to main
2. Make small, frequent commits
3. Use Conventional Commits
4. Use feature flags instead of branches
5. Implement in three stages (work → right → fast)
6. Pin dependencies for reproducibility
7. Keep CI green at all times
8. Use environment-specific configuration
9. Split commits by domain
10. Test before committing

Workflows built following these practices are efficient, predictable, and high-quality.

## Principles Applied

- **Simplicity Over Complexity**: Single branch, small commits, clear workflow
- **Automation Over Manual**: CI enforcement, automated testing
- **Reproducibility First**: Pinned dependencies, environment configuration
- **Explicit Over Implicit**: Conventional Commits, clear commit messages

Commit message:

refactor(governance): complete repository rules validation with zero findings
Executed repository-wide governance validation in OCD mode through 4
iterations, achieving zero findings across all criticality levels.

Iteration 1 - Agent Duplication Cleanup:
- Remove Workflow Integration boilerplate from 14 checker agents (~140 lines)
- Remove Tool Usage sections from all 45 agents (~360-540 lines)
- Simplify verbose skill references to concise format (19 agents)
- Add Vision Supported section to deliberate-problem-solving principle

Iteration 2 - Traceability Fixes:
- Add Principles Implemented section to software-design-reference convention
- Add Conventions Implemented section to skill-context-architecture practice

Iteration 3 - Content & Reference Cleanup:
- Remove time estimates from tutorial/general.md convention (5 instances)
- Move template skill (repo-multi-file-template) to docs/reference/templates/
- Fix broken principle references in 11 prog-lang docs
  (remove security-first, quality-first, measure-first-optimize-later)

Iteration 4 - Final Cleanup:
- Remove 2 remaining broken principle references from platform-web docs
- Add traceability sections to 12 companion documents
  (best-practices.md and anti-patterns.md in governance/development/)

Impact:
- 122 files changed
- 332 insertions, 1378 deletions
- Net reduction: 1046 lines
- Repository governance now fully compliant with zero validation findings

Validation: repo-governance-checker (4 iterations)

governance/development/workflow/best-practices.md, after:

# Best Practices for Workflow Development

> **Companion Document**: For common mistakes to avoid, see [Anti-Patterns](./anti-patterns.md)

## Overview

## Principles Respected

This companion document respects:

- **[Simplicity Over Complexity](../../principles/general/simplicity-over-complexity.md)**: Provides practical examples of simple vs complex approaches
- **[Explicit Over Implicit](../../principles/software-engineering/explicit-over-implicit.md)**: Makes patterns and anti-patterns explicit through clear examples

## Conventions Implemented/Respected

This companion document supports the conventions in this directory by providing practical examples and guidance.

This document outlines best practices for development workflows, including Trunk Based Development, implementation methodology, commit messages, and reproducible environments. Following these practices ensures efficient, predictable, and high-quality development.

## Purpose

## Principles Respected

This companion document respects:

- **[Simplicity Over Complexity](../../principles/general/simplicity-over-complexity.md)**: Provides practical examples of simple vs complex approaches
- **[Explicit Over Implicit](../../principles/software-engineering/explicit-over-implicit.md)**: Makes patterns and anti-patterns explicit through clear examples

## Conventions Implemented/Respected

This companion document supports the conventions in this directory by providing practical examples and guidance.

Provide actionable guidance for:

- Git workflow execution
- Implementation progression
- Commit message authoring
- Environment reproducibility
- Development process standards

## Best Practices

### Practice 1: Commit Directly to Main

**Principle**: Default to committing on main branch, use branches only when necessary.

**Good Example:**

```bash
# Work on main
git checkout main
git pull origin main

# Make small change
# ... edit files ...
npm test

# Commit to main
git add .
git commit -m "feat(auth): add email validation"
git push origin main
```

**Bad Example:**

```bash
# Creating branch for every task (unnecessary)
git checkout -b feature/tiny-typo-fix
# ... fix typo ...
git commit -m "fix typo"
# Wait days for PR review for one-line change
```

**Rationale:**

- Simplifies workflow
- Faster integration
- No merge conflicts from long-lived branches
- Continuous integration by default

### Practice 2: Make Small, Frequent Commits

**Principle**: Break work into small, atomic commits multiple times per day.

**Good Example:**

```bash
# Day 1
git commit -m "feat(auth): add User model"
git commit -m "feat(auth): add password hashing utility"
git commit -m "test(auth): add User model tests"

# Day 2
git commit -m "feat(auth): add login endpoint"
git commit -m "test(auth): add login endpoint tests"
```

**Bad Example:**

```bash
# One massive commit after a week
git commit -m "feat(auth): complete authentication system"
# 5000 lines changed across 50 files!
```

**Rationale:**

- Easier code review
- Easier to revert if needed
- Clear history
- Faster feedback

### Practice 3: Use Conventional Commits

**Principle**: Follow conventional commit format for clear, parseable history.

**Good Example:**

```bash
git commit -m "feat(api): add user registration endpoint"
git commit -m "fix(ui): resolve button alignment issue"
git commit -m "docs(readme): update installation instructions"
git commit -m "refactor(auth): extract validation logic"
```

**Bad Example:**

```bash
git commit -m "updates"
git commit -m "fix stuff"
git commit -m "WIP"
git commit -m "asdf"
```

**Rationale:**

- Clear commit purpose
- Automated changelog generation
- Easy to search history
- Semantic versioning support

### Practice 4: Use Feature Flags Instead of Long-Lived Branches

**Principle**: Hide incomplete work with feature flags, not branches.

**Good Example:**

```javascript
// config/features.js
const FEATURES = {
  NEW_DASHBOARD: process.env.ENABLE_NEW_DASHBOARD === "true",
};

// In code
if (FEATURES.NEW_DASHBOARD) {
  return renderNewDashboard(); // Incomplete, hidden in production
} else {
  return renderOldDashboard(); // Production-ready
}
```

**Bad Example:**

```bash
# Long-lived feature branch (DO NOT DO THIS)
git checkout -b feature/new-dashboard
# ... work for 2 weeks on branch ...
# Massive merge conflicts when ready to merge!
```

**Rationale:**

- Code integrated immediately
- No merge conflicts
- Can toggle features without deployment
- Gradual rollouts

### Practice 5: Implement in Three Stages

**Principle**: Make it work → Make it right → Make it fast.

**Good Example:**

```markdown
## Stage 1: Make it work

- Implement basic functionality
- Get tests passing
- Commit working code

## Stage 2: Make it right

- Refactor for clarity
- Improve code organization
- Add documentation

## Stage 3: Make it fast

- Profile for bottlenecks
- Optimize hot paths
- Measure improvements
```

**Bad Example:**

```markdown
# Premature optimization (DO NOT DO THIS)

## Stage 1: Make it fast

- Optimize before implementation
- Complex micro-optimizations
- Code that doesn't work yet
```

**Rationale:**

- Working code first
- Avoid premature optimization
- Incremental improvement
- Clear progression

### Practice 6: Pin Dependencies for Reproducibility

**Principle**: Lock versions using package-lock.json and Volta.

**Good Example:**

```json
// package.json
{
  "volta": {
    "node": "24.11.1",
    "npm": "11.6.3"
  }
}

// Committed: package-lock.json (exact versions)
```

**Bad Example:**

```json
// package.json
{
  "dependencies": {
    "react": "^18.0.0"  // Unpinned - different versions on different machines!
  }
}

// .gitignore
package-lock.json  # NOT COMMITTED - WRONG!
```

**Rationale:**

- Consistent builds across machines
- No "works on my machine" issues
- Reproducible CI/CD
- Reliable dependency versions

### Practice 7: Keep CI Green at All Times

**Principle**: Never commit code that breaks CI, fix immediately if broken.

**Good Example:**

```bash
# Before pushing
npm test  # Verify tests pass
npm run lint  # Verify linting passes
npm run build  # Verify build succeeds

git push origin main

# If CI fails after push
git revert HEAD  # OR fix immediately
```

**Bad Example:**

```bash
git push origin main
# CI fails
# "I'll fix it later" (BLOCKS EVERYONE!)
```

**Rationale:**

- Broken main blocks everyone
- Fast feedback loop
- Team productivity
- Quality gate enforcement

### Practice 8: Use Environment-Specific Configuration

**Principle**: Different settings for development vs production.

**Good Example:**

```bash
# Development
NODE_ENV=development npm run dev

# Production
NODE_ENV=production npm run build

# .env.example (committed)
DATABASE_URL=
API_KEY=
```

**Bad Example:**

```bash
# Same config everywhere (DO NOT DO THIS)
const DB_URL = "production-db.example.com";  # Hardcoded!
```

**Rationale:**

- Safe local development
- No production credentials in code
- Environment-specific behavior
- Follows 12-factor app principles

### Practice 9: Split Commits by Domain

**Principle**: Separate concerns in different commits.

**Good Example:**

```bash
git commit -m "feat(api): add user endpoints"
git commit -m "feat(ui): add user profile page"
git commit -m "docs(api): document user endpoints"
```

**Bad Example:**

```bash
git commit -m "feat: add user functionality"
# 1000 lines: API + UI + docs + tests all in one commit
```

**Rationale:**

- Easier to review
- Easier to revert specific changes
- Clear history by domain
- Better git log navigation

### Practice 10: Test Before Committing

**Principle**: Run tests locally before every commit.

**Good Example:**

```bash
# Make changes
# ... edit files ...

# Test before committing
npm test
npm run lint

# All green - commit
git commit -m "feat(api): add validation"
```

**Bad Example:**

```bash
# Make changes
git commit -m "feat: add stuff"
git push

# Wait for CI to tell you tests failed (SLOW FEEDBACK!)
```

**Rationale:**

- Fast feedback loop
- Catch issues early
- Respect team's time
- Green CI

## Related Documentation

- [Trunk Based Development Convention](./trunk-based-development.md) - Complete TBD workflow
- [Commit Message Convention](./commit-messages.md) - Conventional Commits guide
- [Implementation Workflow Convention](./implementation.md) - Three-stage methodology
- [Reproducible Environments Convention](./reproducible-environments.md) - Environment practices
- [Anti-Patterns](./anti-patterns.md) - Common mistakes to avoid

## Summary

Following these best practices ensures:

1. Commit directly to main
2. Make small, frequent commits
3. Use Conventional Commits
4. Use feature flags instead of branches
5. Implement in three stages (work → right → fast)
6. Pin dependencies for reproducibility
7. Keep CI green at all times
8. Use environment-specific configuration
9. Split commits by domain
10. Test before committing

Workflows built following these practices are efficient, predictable, and high-quality.

## Principles Applied

- **Simplicity Over Complexity**: Single branch, small commits, clear workflow
- **Automation Over Manual**: CI enforcement, automated testing
- **Reproducibility First**: Pinned dependencies, environment configuration
- **Explicit Over Implicit**: Conventional Commits, clear commit messages
