apps/ayokoding-web/README.md, before:

# ayokoding-web

Bilingual educational platform for software engineering content, focused on helping the Indonesian tech community learn and grow. Built with Hugo and the Hextra documentation theme.

## Overview

AyoKoding ("Let's Code" in Indonesian) is a platform dedicated to sharing software engineering knowledge in both Indonesian and English. It follows a "learning in public" philosophy, encouraging developers to share their learning journey with the community.

## Features

- **Bilingual Content**: Full support for Indonesian (ID) and English (EN)
- **Documentation-style Layout**: Clean, readable format using Hextra theme
- **YouTube Integration**: Connected with @AyoKoding YouTube channel
- **SEO Optimized**: Static site generation for fast loading and better SEO
- **Responsive Design**: Works across all devices
- **Dark/Light Theme**: User-preferred theme support

## Tech Stack

- **Static Site Generator**: Hugo (latest)
- **Theme**: Hextra documentation theme
- **Content Format**: Markdown with YAML frontmatter
- **Deployment**: Vercel
- **Languages**: Indonesian (primary), English

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Hugo extended version (latest)

### Installation

```bash
# Install Hugo (macOS)
brew install hugo

# Navigate to project
cd apps/ayokoding-web
```

### Development

```bash
# Start development server
hugo server -D

# Server runs at http://localhost:1313
```

### Building

```bash
# Build for production
hugo --minify

# Output will be in public/ directory
```

## Content Structure

```
content/
├── _index.md              # Homepage
├── en/                    # English content
│   ├── _index.md
│   ├── about-ayokoding.md
│   └── learn/            # Learning materials
│       ├── _index.md
│       └── swe/          # Software engineering
└── id/                   # Indonesian content
    ├── _index.md
    ├── tentang-ayokoding.md
    └── belajar/          # Learning materials
```

## Creating New Content

### Using Archetypes

AyoKoding provides content templates (archetypes) for different content types. Use the appropriate archetype based on your content:

#### 1. Technical Learning Content

For tutorials, guides, and educational content:

```bash
# Indonesian
hugo new content/id/belajar/topic-name.md --kind learn

# English
hugo new content/en/learn/topic-name.md --kind learn
```

#### 2. Personal Essays/Rants (Celoteh)

For opinion pieces and personal narratives:

```bash
# Indonesian
hugo new content/id/celoteh/YYYY/essay-title.md --kind celoteh

# English
hugo new content/en/rants/YYYY/essay-title.md --kind celoteh
```

#### 3. Video Content

For YouTube video embeds:

```bash
# Indonesian
hugo new content/id/konten-video/series-name/video-title.md --kind konten-video

# English
hugo new content/en/video-content/series-name/video-title.md --kind konten-video
```

After creating, remember to:

1. Update the `youtube_id` field in frontmatter
2. Replace `YOUTUBE_ID_HERE` in the content with actual video ID

#### 4. Navigation/Index Pages

For section index pages:

```bash
# Indonesian
hugo new content/id/section-name/_index.md

# English
hugo new content/en/section-name/_index.md
```

#### 5. Default Content

For general pages:

```bash
# Indonesian
hugo new content/id/page-name.md

# English
hugo new content/en/page-name.md
```

### Content Frontmatter Fields

All content should include these frontmatter fields for optimal SEO:

| Field         | Required    | Description                     | Example                              |
| ------------- | ----------- | ------------------------------- | ------------------------------------ |
| `title`       | Yes         | Page title                      | `"How to Learn JavaScript"`          |
| `date`        | Yes         | Publication date (WIB/UTC+7)    | `2025-12-06T12:00:00+07:00`          |
| `lastmod`     | Recommended | Last modified date              | `2025-12-06T12:00:00+07:00`          |
| `draft`       | Yes         | Draft status                    | `false`                              |
| `description` | Recommended | SEO description (150-160 chars) | `"Learn JavaScript fundamentals..."` |
| `weight`      | Optional    | Ordering in menus               | `10`                                 |
| `tags`        | Recommended | Content tags                    | `["javascript", "tutorial"]`         |
| `categories`  | Recommended | Content categories              | `["learn"]`                          |
| `author`      | Recommended | Author name                     | `"Wahidyan Kresna Fridayoka"`        |
| `images`      | Recommended | Social sharing images           | `["/images/cover.png"]`              |
| `keywords`    | Optional    | SEO keywords                    | `["javascript tutorial"]`            |
| `youtube_id`  | Video only  | YouTube video ID                | `"dQw4w9WgXcQ"`                      |

### Content Writing Best Practices

1. **SEO Optimization**
   - Write descriptive titles (50-60 characters)
   - Craft compelling descriptions (150-160 characters)
   - Use relevant tags and categories
   - Include featured images when possible

2. **Content Structure**
   - Use clear heading hierarchy (H2, H3, H4)
   - Include introduction and summary sections
   - Add code examples with syntax highlighting
   - Use bullet points for scannability

3. **Bilingual Content**
   - Maintain consistency between ID and EN versions
   - Keep URLs synchronized (e.g., `/belajar/topic` ↔ `/learn/topic`)
   - Ensure equivalent content quality in both languages

4. **Images and Media**
   - Place images in `static/images/`
   - Use descriptive alt text
   - Optimize images for web (compress, resize)
   - For video content, use YouTube shortcode: `{{< youtube VIDEO_ID >}}`

5. **Internal Linking**
   - Link to related content within the site
   - Use descriptive anchor text
   - Ensure links work in both languages

## Configuration

Main configuration in `hugo.yaml`:

```yaml
baseURL: "https://ayokoding.com/"
title: "Ayo Koding"
theme: "hextra"

languages:
  en:
    languageName: "English"
    weight: 2
  id:
    languageName: "Indonesia"
    weight: 1

defaultContentLanguage: "id"
defaultContentLanguageInSubdir: false
```

## SEO Features

This site implements comprehensive SEO best practices:

### Meta Tags

- **Open Graph**: Facebook and social media sharing
- **Twitter Cards**: Twitter sharing with images
- **Canonical URLs**: Prevent duplicate content issues
- **Language Alternates**: Hreflang tags for bilingual content
- **JSON-LD Structured Data**: Rich search results

### Sitemaps & Feeds

- **XML Sitemap**: Auto-generated at `/sitemap.xml`
- **RSS Feeds**: Available for all content sections
- **Robots.txt**: Search engine crawling instructions

### Performance

- **Static Site**: Fast loading times
- **CDN Delivery**: Vercel edge network
- **Asset Optimization**: Minified CSS/JS
- **Image Optimization**: Recommended for all images

## Theme Customization

### Custom CSS

Add custom styles in `assets/css/custom.css`. This file is automatically loaded by Hextra.

```css
/* Example custom styles */
.your-custom-class {
  color: #your-color;
}
```

### Custom Layouts

Override theme layouts by creating files in `layouts/` directory:

- `layouts/partials/custom/head-end.html` - Custom head scripts/meta tags
- `layouts/partials/custom/footer.html` - Custom footer content
- `layouts/_default/single.html` - Single page layout override

### Custom Data

Store structured data in `data/` directory (YAML, JSON, or TOML):

- `data/social.yaml` - Social media profiles
- `data/authors.yaml` - Author information
- `data/testimonials.yaml` - User testimonials

### Internationalization (i18n)

Add custom translation strings in `i18n/` directory:

- `i18n/id.yaml` - Indonesian translations
- `i18n/en.yaml` - English translations

Example:

```yaml
# i18n/id.yaml
- id: readMore
  translation: "Baca Selengkapnya"
```

Use in templates:

```go-html-template
{{ i18n "readMore" }}
```

## Deployment

### Production Deployment to ayokoding.com

The project uses a dedicated production branch for automatic deployment to ayokoding.com via Vercel.

**Production Branch**: `prod-ayokoding-web`

**Workflow**:

1. **Make all changes in `main` branch first**

   ```bash
   git checkout main
   # ... make your changes ...
   git add .
   git commit -m "feat(content): add new tutorial"
   git push origin main
   ```

2. **When ready to deploy to production, pull changes to production branch**

   ```bash
   git checkout prod-ayokoding-web
   git pull origin main
   git push origin prod-ayokoding-web
   ```

3. **Automatic deployment triggers**
   - Vercel automatically detects the push to `prod-ayokoding-web`
   - Builds and deploys to ayokoding.com

**Important Guidelines**:

- ✅ **DO**: Always work in `main` branch for all development
- ✅ **DO**: Pull from `main` to `prod-ayokoding-web` when ready to deploy
- ✅ **DO**: Keep `prod-ayokoding-web` clean and synchronized with `main`
- ❌ **DON'T**: Commit directly to `prod-ayokoding-web` branch
- ❌ **DON'T**: Make changes in `prod-ayokoding-web` that don't exist in `main`
- ❌ **DON'T**: Use `prod-ayokoding-web` for development or experimentation

**Why This Approach?**

- **Controlled deployments**: Only deploy when explicitly ready
- **Clean deployment trigger**: Vercel watches `prod-ayokoding-web` for production
- **Compliant with Trunk Based Development**: Environment branches (production, staging) are acceptable in TBD - they serve deployment purposes, not feature isolation
- **Simple rollback**: Revert `prod-ayokoding-web` to a previous commit if needed

### Vercel Configuration

Configuration in `vercel.json`:

```json
{
  "build": {
    "env": {
      "HUGO_VERSION": "0.xxx.x"
    }
  },
  "buildCommand": "hugo --minify",
  "outputDirectory": "public"
}
```

## Content Guidelines

### Writing Style

- Clear and concise explanations
- Practical examples
- Step-by-step tutorials
- Include code snippets

### Language Considerations

- Maintain consistency between ID/EN versions
- Use appropriate technical terms
- Consider cultural context

## Common Commands

```bash
hugo server -D   # Start development server
hugo --minify    # Build for production
./build.sh       # Custom build script
```

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Write content in Markdown
4. Test locally with Hugo server
5. Submit a pull request

## YouTube Integration

The platform is integrated with the @AyoKoding YouTube channel. Video content can be embedded using Hugo shortcodes.

## Related Documentation

- [Hugo Documentation](https://gohugo.io/documentation/)
- [Hextra Theme Documentation](https://imfing.github.io/hextra/)
- [Monorepo Structure Reference](../../docs/reference/re__monorepo-structure.md)

## License

MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

Commit message:

docs(readme): add production URLs for live sites
Add ayokoding.com and oseplatform.com URLs to README files for better
discoverability and project presentation. Updates include:
- Root README: Add both live sites with descriptions
- ayokoding-web README: Add prominent production URL section
- apps README: Showcase current production apps with live URLs

apps/ayokoding-web/README.md, after:

# ayokoding-web

Bilingual educational platform for software engineering content, focused on helping the Indonesian tech community learn and grow. Built with Hugo and the Hextra documentation theme.

## Overview

AyoKoding ("Let's Code" in Indonesian) is a platform dedicated to sharing software engineering knowledge in both Indonesian and English. It follows a "learning in public" philosophy, encouraging developers to share their learning journey with the community.

## 🌐 Website

- **Production**: https://ayokoding.com
- **Repository**: Part of the [open-sharia-enterprise](https://github.com/wahidyankf/open-sharia-enterprise) monorepo

## Features

- **Bilingual Content**: Full support for Indonesian (ID) and English (EN)
- **Documentation-style Layout**: Clean, readable format using Hextra theme
- **YouTube Integration**: Connected with @AyoKoding YouTube channel
- **SEO Optimized**: Static site generation for fast loading and better SEO
- **Responsive Design**: Works across all devices
- **Dark/Light Theme**: User-preferred theme support

## Tech Stack

- **Static Site Generator**: Hugo (latest)
- **Theme**: Hextra documentation theme
- **Content Format**: Markdown with YAML frontmatter
- **Deployment**: Vercel
- **Languages**: Indonesian (primary), English

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Hugo extended version (latest)

### Installation

```bash
# Install Hugo (macOS)
brew install hugo

# Navigate to project
cd apps/ayokoding-web
```

### Development

```bash
# Start development server
hugo server -D

# Server runs at http://localhost:1313
```

### Building

```bash
# Build for production
hugo --minify

# Output will be in public/ directory
```

## Content Structure

```
content/
├── _index.md              # Homepage
├── en/                    # English content
│   ├── _index.md
│   ├── about-ayokoding.md
│   └── learn/            # Learning materials
│       ├── _index.md
│       └── swe/          # Software engineering
└── id/                   # Indonesian content
    ├── _index.md
    ├── tentang-ayokoding.md
    └── belajar/          # Learning materials
```

## Creating New Content

### Using Archetypes

AyoKoding provides content templates (archetypes) for different content types. Use the appropriate archetype based on your content:

#### 1. Technical Learning Content

For tutorials, guides, and educational content:

```bash
# Indonesian
hugo new content/id/belajar/topic-name.md --kind learn

# English
hugo new content/en/learn/topic-name.md --kind learn
```

#### 2. Personal Essays/Rants (Celoteh)

For opinion pieces and personal narratives:

```bash
# Indonesian
hugo new content/id/celoteh/YYYY/essay-title.md --kind celoteh

# English
hugo new content/en/rants/YYYY/essay-title.md --kind celoteh
```

#### 3. Video Content

For YouTube video embeds:

```bash
# Indonesian
hugo new content/id/konten-video/series-name/video-title.md --kind konten-video

# English
hugo new content/en/video-content/series-name/video-title.md --kind konten-video
```

After creating, remember to:

1. Update the `youtube_id` field in frontmatter
2. Replace `YOUTUBE_ID_HERE` in the content with actual video ID

#### 4. Navigation/Index Pages

For section index pages:

```bash
# Indonesian
hugo new content/id/section-name/_index.md

# English
hugo new content/en/section-name/_index.md
```

#### 5. Default Content

For general pages:

```bash
# Indonesian
hugo new content/id/page-name.md

# English
hugo new content/en/page-name.md
```

### Content Frontmatter Fields

All content should include these frontmatter fields for optimal SEO:

| Field         | Required    | Description                     | Example                              |
| ------------- | ----------- | ------------------------------- | ------------------------------------ |
| `title`       | Yes         | Page title                      | `"How to Learn JavaScript"`          |
| `date`        | Yes         | Publication date (WIB/UTC+7)    | `2025-12-06T12:00:00+07:00`          |
| `lastmod`     | Recommended | Last modified date              | `2025-12-06T12:00:00+07:00`          |
| `draft`       | Yes         | Draft status                    | `false`                              |
| `description` | Recommended | SEO description (150-160 chars) | `"Learn JavaScript fundamentals..."` |
| `weight`      | Optional    | Ordering in menus               | `10`                                 |
| `tags`        | Recommended | Content tags                    | `["javascript", "tutorial"]`         |
| `categories`  | Recommended | Content categories              | `["learn"]`                          |
| `author`      | Recommended | Author name                     | `"Wahidyan Kresna Fridayoka"`        |
| `images`      | Recommended | Social sharing images           | `["/images/cover.png"]`              |
| `keywords`    | Optional    | SEO keywords                    | `["javascript tutorial"]`            |
| `youtube_id`  | Video only  | YouTube video ID                | `"dQw4w9WgXcQ"`                      |

### Content Writing Best Practices

1. **SEO Optimization**
   - Write descriptive titles (50-60 characters)
   - Craft compelling descriptions (150-160 characters)
   - Use relevant tags and categories
   - Include featured images when possible

2. **Content Structure**
   - Use clear heading hierarchy (H2, H3, H4)
   - Include introduction and summary sections
   - Add code examples with syntax highlighting
   - Use bullet points for scannability

3. **Bilingual Content**
   - Maintain consistency between ID and EN versions
   - Keep URLs synchronized (e.g., `/belajar/topic` ↔ `/learn/topic`)
   - Ensure equivalent content quality in both languages

4. **Images and Media**
   - Place images in `static/images/`
   - Use descriptive alt text
   - Optimize images for web (compress, resize)
   - For video content, use YouTube shortcode: `{{< youtube VIDEO_ID >}}`

5. **Internal Linking**
   - Link to related content within the site
   - Use descriptive anchor text
   - Ensure links work in both languages

## Configuration

Main configuration in `hugo.yaml`:

```yaml
baseURL: "https://ayokoding.com/"
title: "Ayo Koding"
theme: "hextra"

languages:
  en:
    languageName: "English"
    weight: 2
  id:
    languageName: "Indonesia"
    weight: 1

defaultContentLanguage: "id"
defaultContentLanguageInSubdir: false
```

## SEO Features

This site implements comprehensive SEO best practices:

### Meta Tags

- **Open Graph**: Facebook and social media sharing
- **Twitter Cards**: Twitter sharing with images
- **Canonical URLs**: Prevent duplicate content issues
- **Language Alternates**: Hreflang tags for bilingual content
- **JSON-LD Structured Data**: Rich search results

### Sitemaps & Feeds

- **XML Sitemap**: Auto-generated at `/sitemap.xml`
- **RSS Feeds**: Available for all content sections
- **Robots.txt**: Search engine crawling instructions

### Performance

- **Static Site**: Fast loading times
- **CDN Delivery**: Vercel edge network
- **Asset Optimization**: Minified CSS/JS
- **Image Optimization**: Recommended for all images

## Theme Customization

### Custom CSS

Add custom styles in `assets/css/custom.css`. This file is automatically loaded by Hextra.

```css
/* Example custom styles */
.your-custom-class {
  color: #your-color;
}
```

### Custom Layouts

Override theme layouts by creating files in `layouts/` directory:

- `layouts/partials/custom/head-end.html` - Custom head scripts/meta tags
- `layouts/partials/custom/footer.html` - Custom footer content
- `layouts/_default/single.html` - Single page layout override

### Custom Data

Store structured data in `data/` directory (YAML, JSON, or TOML):

- `data/social.yaml` - Social media profiles
- `data/authors.yaml` - Author information
- `data/testimonials.yaml` - User testimonials

### Internationalization (i18n)

Add custom translation strings in `i18n/` directory:

- `i18n/id.yaml` - Indonesian translations
- `i18n/en.yaml` - English translations

Example:

```yaml
# i18n/id.yaml
- id: readMore
  translation: "Baca Selengkapnya"
```

Use in templates:

```go-html-template
{{ i18n "readMore" }}
```

## Deployment

### Production Deployment to ayokoding.com

The project uses a dedicated production branch for automatic deployment to ayokoding.com via Vercel.

**Production Branch**: `prod-ayokoding-web`

**Workflow**:

1. **Make all changes in `main` branch first**

   ```bash
   git checkout main
   # ... make your changes ...
   git add .
   git commit -m "feat(content): add new tutorial"
   git push origin main
   ```

2. **When ready to deploy to production, pull changes to production branch**

   ```bash
   git checkout prod-ayokoding-web
   git pull origin main
   git push origin prod-ayokoding-web
   ```

3. **Automatic deployment triggers**
   - Vercel automatically detects the push to `prod-ayokoding-web`
   - Builds and deploys to ayokoding.com

**Important Guidelines**:

- ✅ **DO**: Always work in `main` branch for all development
- ✅ **DO**: Pull from `main` to `prod-ayokoding-web` when ready to deploy
- ✅ **DO**: Keep `prod-ayokoding-web` clean and synchronized with `main`
- ❌ **DON'T**: Commit directly to `prod-ayokoding-web` branch
- ❌ **DON'T**: Make changes in `prod-ayokoding-web` that don't exist in `main`
- ❌ **DON'T**: Use `prod-ayokoding-web` for development or experimentation

**Why This Approach?**

- **Controlled deployments**: Only deploy when explicitly ready
- **Clean deployment trigger**: Vercel watches `prod-ayokoding-web` for production
- **Compliant with Trunk Based Development**: Environment branches (production, staging) are acceptable in TBD - they serve deployment purposes, not feature isolation
- **Simple rollback**: Revert `prod-ayokoding-web` to a previous commit if needed

### Vercel Configuration

Configuration in `vercel.json`:

```json
{
  "build": {
    "env": {
      "HUGO_VERSION": "0.xxx.x"
    }
  },
  "buildCommand": "hugo --minify",
  "outputDirectory": "public"
}
```

## Content Guidelines

### Writing Style

- Clear and concise explanations
- Practical examples
- Step-by-step tutorials
- Include code snippets

### Language Considerations

- Maintain consistency between ID/EN versions
- Use appropriate technical terms
- Consider cultural context

## Common Commands

```bash
hugo server -D   # Start development server
hugo --minify    # Build for production
./build.sh       # Custom build script
```

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Write content in Markdown
4. Test locally with Hugo server
5. Submit a pull request

## YouTube Integration

The platform is integrated with the @AyoKoding YouTube channel. Video content can be embedded using Hugo shortcodes.

## Related Documentation

- [Hugo Documentation](https://gohugo.io/documentation/)
- [Hextra Theme Documentation](https://imfing.github.io/hextra/)
- [Monorepo Structure Reference](../../docs/reference/re__monorepo-structure.md)

## License

MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
