apps/ayokoding-web/content/en/rants/2023/my-cliftonstrengths-journey-it-makes-me-more-confident-to-take-the-engineering-management-path.md, before:

---
title: "My CliftonStrengths Journey: It makes me more confident to take the engineering management path"
date: 2025-03-16T07:20:00+07:00
draft: false
---

بِسْــــــــــــــــــمِ اللهِ الرَّحْمَنِ الرَّحِيْمِ

In the name of Allah, The Most Gracious and The Most Merciful

April 24, 2023

About a month ago, I took the [CliftonStrengths](/learn/human/tools/cliftonstrengths) assessment, an experience that led me on a path of self-discovery and validation. My boss, Ariya Hidayat, recommended the test to me and other engineering managers at our company. Initially, I was skeptical about its effectiveness and how much it would help me grow in my career. However, I remembered that Ariya had also recommended it to other managers, so I took a leap of faith and completed the assessment.

When I received the results, I discovered that my top 5 strengths were [Achiever](/learn/human/tools/cliftonstrengths/themes/executing/achiever), [Connectedness](/learn/human/tools/cliftonstrengths/themes/relationship-building/connectedness), [Relator](/learn/human/tools/cliftonstrengths/themes/relationship-building/relator), [Learner](/learn/human/tools/cliftonstrengths/themes/strategic-thinking/learner), [Responsibility](/learn/human/tools/cliftonstrengths/themes/executing/responsibility). At first glance, I was surprised by how accurate these findings seemed. As I began reflecting on my past experiences and approach to work, I realized these strengths resonated with me and shed light on some of my most defining traits.
For instance, I've always had a workaholic attitude and a solid drive to progress in my career and personal goals, even during my vacations. This aligns perfectly with the Achiever's strength. Another example is my deep-rooted disdain for those who lack integrity at work, which corresponds with Responsibility strength.

Furthermore, I've always valued my one-on-one sessions with team members, rarely skipping them throughout my career as a lead or engineering manager. This can be attributed to my Relator strength. Additionally, I've consistently sought out companies that I believe have a significant social impact or cause, demonstrating my Connectedness strength.
Finally, a colleague once told me, "I think learning is your hobby." This statement reflects my Learner strength and the constant pursuit of knowledge and self-improvement.

Not only has the CliftonStrengths assessment helped me understand my innate tendencies and behaviors, but it has also provided me with a sense of validation. Embracing my unique strengths has empowered me to become a more effective leader and foster an environment where my team and I can thrive. I now feel confident that choosing a career as a software engineering manager was the right path for me.

In conclusion, my initial skepticism about the CliftonStrengths assessment has transformed into gratitude and self-awareness. I can now better leverage my strengths, which have positively impacted my career and personal growth. I recommend this assessment to anyone looking for deeper insight into their strengths and how they can use them to achieve success in their chosen field. And for those who want to get a gist of CliftonStrengths, feel free to browse this section.

Commit message:

fix(ayokoding-web): add language prefixes to all internal links for multilingual Hugo
- Add /en/ prefix to all English internal links
- Add /id/ prefix to all Indonesian internal links
- Fix cross-language "Similar article" links between blog posts
- Fix CliftonStrengths strength theme links in Indonesian blog post
- Convert relative paths (./) to absolute paths with language prefixes
- Update external links cache (ayokoding-links-status.yaml)

This fixes broken links caused by Hugo's defaultContentLanguageInSubdir: true
configuration, which requires language prefixes in all internal URLs.

Files changed: 60+ content files across both English and Indonesian sections

apps/ayokoding-web/content/en/rants/2023/my-cliftonstrengths-journey-it-makes-me-more-confident-to-take-the-engineering-management-path.md, after:

---
title: "My CliftonStrengths Journey: It makes me more confident to take the engineering management path"
date: 2025-03-16T07:20:00+07:00
draft: false
---

**Similar article:** [Pengalaman Gw dengan Tes CliftonStrengths: Jadi makin yakin di jalur engineering management](/id/celoteh/2023/pengalaman-gw-dengan-tes-cliftonstrengths-jadi-makin-yakin-di-jalur-engineering-management)

بِسْــــــــــــــــــمِ اللهِ الرَّحْمَنِ الرَّحِيْمِ

In the name of Allah, The Most Gracious and The Most Merciful

April 24, 2023

About a month ago, I took the [CliftonStrengths](/en/learn/human/tools/cliftonstrengths) assessment, an experience that led me on a path of self-discovery and validation. My boss, Ariya Hidayat, recommended the test to me and other engineering managers at our company. Initially, I was skeptical about its effectiveness and how much it would help me grow in my career. However, I remembered that Ariya had also recommended it to other managers, so I took a leap of faith and completed the assessment.

When I received the results, I discovered that my top 5 strengths were [Achiever](/en/learn/human/tools/cliftonstrengths/themes/executing/achiever), [Connectedness](/en/learn/human/tools/cliftonstrengths/themes/relationship-building/connectedness), [Relator](/en/learn/human/tools/cliftonstrengths/themes/relationship-building/relator), [Learner](/en/learn/human/tools/cliftonstrengths/themes/strategic-thinking/learner), [Responsibility](/en/learn/human/tools/cliftonstrengths/themes/executing/responsibility). At first glance, I was surprised by how accurate these findings seemed. As I began reflecting on my past experiences and approach to work, I realized these strengths resonated with me and shed light on some of my most defining traits.
For instance, I've always had a workaholic attitude and a solid drive to progress in my career and personal goals, even during my vacations. This aligns perfectly with the Achiever's strength. Another example is my deep-rooted disdain for those who lack integrity at work, which corresponds with Responsibility strength.

Furthermore, I've always valued my one-on-one sessions with team members, rarely skipping them throughout my career as a lead or engineering manager. This can be attributed to my Relator strength. Additionally, I've consistently sought out companies that I believe have a significant social impact or cause, demonstrating my Connectedness strength.
Finally, a colleague once told me, "I think learning is your hobby." This statement reflects my Learner strength and the constant pursuit of knowledge and self-improvement.

Not only has the CliftonStrengths assessment helped me understand my innate tendencies and behaviors, but it has also provided me with a sense of validation. Embracing my unique strengths has empowered me to become a more effective leader and foster an environment where my team and I can thrive. I now feel confident that choosing a career as a software engineering manager was the right path for me.

In conclusion, my initial skepticism about the CliftonStrengths assessment has transformed into gratitude and self-awareness. I can now better leverage my strengths, which have positively impacted my career and personal growth. I recommend this assessment to anyone looking for deeper insight into their strengths and how they can use them to achieve success in their chosen field. And for those who want to get a gist of CliftonStrengths, feel free to browse this section.
