apps/ayokoding-web/content/en/rants/2023/time-management-strategies-for-software-engineers-maximizing-productivity-and-success.md, before:

---
title: "Time Management Strategies for Software Engineers: Maximizing Productivity and Success"
date: 2025-03-16T07:20:00+07:00
draft: false
---

**Similar article:** [Strategi Manajemen Waktu untuk Insinyur Perangkat Lunak: Memaksimalkan Produktivitas dan Kesuksesan](/id/celoteh/2023/strategi-manajemen-waktu-untuk-insinyur-perangkat-lunak-memaksimalkan-produktivitas-dan-kesuksesan)

بِسْــــــــــــــــــمِ اللهِ الرَّحْمَنِ الرَّحِيْمِ

In the name of Allah, The Most Gracious and The Most Merciful

July 14, 2023

During my career till now, I have always strived to stick to effective time management and course correction whenever I deviate. Time management is crucial for any software engineer looking to optimize their career trajectory. Managing your time effectively in the fast-paced world of software development can significantly improve your productivity, efficiency, and overall success. This article will explore the importance of time management skills for software engineers and provide practical tips to help you improve.

## Why Time Management Matters for Software Engineers

Time management is a crucial aspect that software engineers should not overlook. Practical time management skills can lead to several benefits that can help you succeed professionally. Here are some of the reasons why time management is essential for software engineers:

1. **Increased Productivity**: Prioritizing tasks, setting realistic goals, and allocating time can help you accomplish more tasks in less time. Doing so can increase your productivity and complete more projects, improving your performance and reputation at work.
2. **Improved Focus**: Managing your time effectively can help you maintain focus on tasks that require your attention. By doing so, you can minimize distractions and deliver high-quality work, which can help you meet deadlines consistently.
3. **Reduced Stress**: Poor time management can cause stress and burnout, negatively impacting mental and physical health. By managing your time effectively, you can create a better work-life balance, reduce stress, and maintain a healthier mindset.
4. **Career Growth**: Time management skills are highly valued in the software engineering industry. Employers appreciate individuals who can effectively manage their time and deliver results consistently. Mastering this skill can enhance your professional reputation and open doors to new opportunities that can further advance your career.

Having good time management skills is not just beneficial for software engineers. It is a valuable skill that can help you become more productive, less stressed, and more successful in all aspects of your life.

## Tips for Improving Time Management Skills

Now that we understand the importance of time management for software engineers let's explore some practical tips to help you improve in this area:

### 1. Set Clear Goals and Prioritize Tasks

Setting clear goals and prioritizing tasks is essential for achieving success in any endeavor. The first step is to define your overall objectives and break them into smaller, more manageable tasks. This will help you focus on what needs to be done and stay on track.

Once you have a list of tasks, it is essential to prioritize them based on their importance and deadlines. Start with the most critical tasks and work your way down. Doing this ensures you make the most of your time and energy.

It's also helpful to set daily, weekly, and monthly goals. This will help you stay motivated and focused on your goals. You'll have a clear roadmap to follow, and you'll be able to measure your progress along the way. For more insights on creating maximum impact, which will be used for prioritization, refer to the book "The Effective Engineer" by Edmond Lau [^1]. This book provides valuable tips and strategies for optimizing your work and achieving your goals most effectively.

By setting clear goals and prioritizing tasks, you'll be able to achieve more in less time. You'll be more productive, more efficient, and more successful. So take the time to plan and prioritize your work, and you'll reap the rewards.

### 2. Use Time-Blocking Techniques

Time management is essential for a productive workday. One effective technique for managing your time is time-blocking. Time-blocking allows you to allocate specific time blocks for different tasks or activities. Doing so allows you to prioritize tasks, reduce distractions, and increase efficiency.

To start time-blocking, create a schedule that outlines dedicated coding time, meetings, research, and breaks. It might help to think about how much time each task realistically requires and factor in some wiggle room for unexpected issues.

One free tool you can use for time-blocking is Google Calendar. It provides a user-friendly interface and lets you easily schedule and manage your time blocks. Not only can you create and color-code events, but you can also set up reminders and notifications.

Using time-blocking techniques, you can make the most of your workday, accomplish more tasks, and reduce stress.

### 3. Minimize Distractions

Identify and minimize distractions that can hinder your productivity. To do so, you can take a few steps, such as turning off notifications on your phone or computer, closing unnecessary tabs or applications, and creating a dedicated workspace without distractions. For instance, you can switch off your phone, stay silent, or keep it in another room to avoid getting distracted. Similarly, you can close any unnecessary applications, tabs, or windows on your computer unrelated to the task. Additionally, it may be helpful to create a distraction-free workspace, such as a quiet room or a desk with no clutter. Consider using productivity tools or browser extensions that can help you stay focused, such as time-tracking apps or website blockers. Minimizing distractions can improve your productivity and get more done in less time.

### 4. Delegate and Collaborate

Delegating tasks and collaborating with team members can be advantageous in several ways. It can help improve team spirit and foster a sense of camaraderie among colleagues. This can lead to better team cohesion and help distribute the workload evenly across team members, thereby improving efficiency.

Effective communication is a critical component of delegation and collaboration. Clear and concise communication ensures that tasks are completed on time and to the desired level of quality. It can also help team members better understand their roles and responsibilities, leading to a more productive and harmonious work environment.

By delegating tasks and collaborating with team members, you can save valuable time and focus on tasks that require your expertise. This can help you perform your duties more effectively and efficiently, improving job performance and career success.

### 5. Take Regular Breaks

Taking regular breaks is essential for maintaining productivity and preventing burnout. Research suggests that the optimal human limit for focusing intensively is around 90 minutes, after which a break is needed [^2].

When taking a break, doing activities that help you relax and refresh your mind is essential. Try stretching, meditating, or walking outside for fresh air. Physical activities during your break can also help improve blood flow and reduce stress levels. Additionally, you can use this time to have a healthy snack or drink water to hydrate yourself.

It is recommended to schedule short breaks, around 30 minutes, every 90 minutes throughout the day (i.e., 3:1 ratio). This will help you recharge and refocus, increasing productivity and better overall well-being. By taking regular breaks, you can avoid burnout and stay motivated throughout your workday.

### 6. Know Your Productive Time

It's essential to identify your most productive and focused time of day. Consider experimenting with different times to determine when you work best. Once you have identified your peak performance period, align your work schedule to maximize productivity. For example, suppose you are most productive in the early morning. In that case, start your office hours earlier, around 7:30. Remember that while taking advantage of your productive time is crucial, it's equally important to maintain a healthy work-life balance. This means that you should also make sure to "get out" of your office hours earlier, allowing you to recharge and take care of other aspects of your life outside of work. By balancing your work schedule and personal life, you can ensure you perform at your best while caring for yourself.

### 7. Varying the Length of Productive Blocks

It's important to understand that not all productive blocks must be the same length. Adhering to the constraint of a maximum of 90 minutes for one cycle of focused work while maintaining a 3:1 ratio of productive time to rest means you can adjust the length of your productive blocks according to the task. For instance, a 60:20 ratio can be appropriate for shorter tasks such as code reviews. However, it's important to note that refocusing between tasks may take up to 23 minutes [^3].

Another factor to consider when varying the length of productive blocks is the type of work you're doing. For instance, if you're working on a particularly difficult or complex task, it may be beneficial to break it down into shorter, more manageable, productive blocks. Conversely, a longer productive block may be more effective if you work on a task requiring much concentration.

It's also worth noting that everyone's working style is different, and what works for one person may not necessarily work for another. That's why it's essential to experiment with different lengths of productive blocks and find what works best for you. Doing so can optimize your productivity and help you achieve your goals more efficiently.

### 8. Take Ownership of Your Time and Learn to Say No

Remember that your time is valuable, and you are the one in control of it. Managing your time correctly and protecting it from distractions and time-consuming tasks is essential. Taking ownership of your schedule means making conscious decisions about allocating your time. Start by setting boundaries and learning to say no when necessary to protect your time.

Prioritizing your tasks and commitments is essential to ensure you don't overextend yourself. Taking on too many responsibilities can lead to burnout and decreased productivity. You can focus on the most critical tasks and dedicate your time to them by learning to say no.

In addition to saying no, you can also learn to delegate tasks to others better suited to handle them. This can free up your time for more important tasks and help you avoid feeling overwhelmed. Remember that taking ownership of your time is an ongoing process, and it's okay to make mistakes and adjust your approach.

### 9. Embrace Flexibility and Allow for Variations

It is essential to remember that you are not a machine, and it is okay to deviate from your routines or miss a task occasionally. However, embracing flexibility and allowing for variations in your schedule can help you stay on track and avoid falling behind. You can do this by creating a flexible schedule that considers unexpected events or new priorities that may arise. For example, you can implement on-call schedules as many tech companies do, adjusting your schedule accordingly. Additionally, it is crucial to account for the team and external agenda, such as meetings, and adjust your schedule accordingly.

Observing when your company allows for a naturally slow-response time can also be beneficial. Use this time for your focus/craftsmanship time. For instance, if your company has a slower pace before 10 in the morning, leverage that time to do some coding/focus time. If you don't have leading responsibilities, you should aim for 5.5-6 hours of net coding time activities, which can be divided into multiple blocks. On the other hand, if you are leading a team, you should aim for half of that.

Don't be too hard on yourself if things don't always go as planned. Instead, learn from the experience and use it to improve your time management skills. Remember, adapting and adjusting your plans is essential, and it is okay to deviate from your routine occasionally as long as you keep your goals in mind.

### 10. Allocating More Time for Physical Activity

Prioritizing your physical well-being by allocating more time for physical activity is essential. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)[^4], allocating at least 150 minutes of moderate-intensity aerobic activity or 75 minutes of vigorous-intensity aerobic activity per week and muscle-strengthening activities at least two days per week is recommended. You can start by taking short walks during your breaks or doing yoga in the morning. You can also join a fitness class or take up a sport you enjoy. Incorporating physical activity into your daily routine can improve overall health, increase energy levels, and better cope with work demands. Additionally, being physically active can help reduce the risk of developing chronic diseases such as heart disease, diabetes, and obesity. So start today by adding more physical activity and taking the first step towards a healthier lifestyle.

### 11. Evaluate and Adjust Regularly

It is crucial to periodically evaluate and adjust your time management program to ensure it is still effective. It is common to become discouraged or uncertain about your progress, especially when waiting for immediate results. However, remaining patient and committed to achieving the compounding effect of optimum time allocation is essential.

When evaluating your time management program, consider the following questions:

- Are you accomplishing your goals on time?
- Have you identified any patterns in how you spend your time?
- Are there any activities that are not contributing to your overall productivity?
- Have you encountered any unexpected obstacles or distractions?

Remember, it is natural to take some time to see the full impact of your efforts. Regularly assessing and adjusting your approach can fine-tune your time management skills and lead to continuous improvements. You may discover new strategies or tools that can help you optimize your time allocation and achieve greater productivity. Reviewing your progress can help you stay motivated and focused on your goals.

### 12. Seek a Supportive Work Environment

A supportive work environment is paramount for implementing effective time management practices. Finding a company that values work-life balance, provides flexible work hours, promotes teamwork, and respects employees’ time is essential. Employees who feel supported and recognized are more productive and motivated to achieve their goals.

If your current company does not provide a conducive environment for time management, consider exploring other opportunities that align with your goals and values. Look for companies with a positive reputation for their culture and work environment. Consider searching for companies that offer wellness programs, professional development opportunities, and mentorship programs to support their employees’ growth.

Additionally, you can seek a mentor or a coach who can help you navigate time management challenges. A mentor or a coach can provide valuable insights and strategies to improve your time management skills. They can also help you identify your strengths and weaknesses and develop a personalized plan to achieve your goals.

Finally, managing your physical and mental health is crucial to managing your time effectively. Make sure to prioritize your sleep, exercise, and healthy eating habits. These habits can help you stay focused, productive, and motivated to achieve your goals.

## Example of a Software Engineer's TimeTable

To provide a practical example, here's a sample timetable based on what I did when I was in a non-leadership role:

| **TIME**      | **ACTIVITY**                                |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------------- |
| 7:00 - 8:30   | **Focus/Craftsmanship Time**                |
| 8:30- 9:00    | **Break and Refreshment**                   |
| 9:00 - 10:00  | **Focus/Craftsmanship Time**                |
| 10:00 - 11:00 | Team and Collaboration Works                |
| 11:00 - 11:45 | **Focus/Craftsmanship Time**                |
| 11:45 - 12:45 | **Break and Refreshment**                   |
| 12:45 - 13:30 | Team and Collaboration Works                |
| 13:30 - 15:00 | **Focus/Craftsmanship Time**                |
| 15:00 - 15:30 | **Break and Refreshment**                   |
| 15:30 - 16:30 | **Focus/Craftsmanship Time**                |
| 16:30 - 17:30 | Team and Collaboration Works                |
| 17:30 - 17:45 | Wrap-up Tasks and Planning for the Next Day |

Note that I start work earlier at 7 AM (Pre COVID pandemic, I came to the office early to avoid traffic jams) because I am a morning person and have 2 hours of breaks in between. With this, I could make around 5 hours and 45 minutes of focus time daily and perform in the 95th+ percentile of my company (from hundreds of software engineers) back then (i.e., based on Gitlab’s statistics).

Please note that this is just an example, and your timetable may vary based on your specific work environment and preferences. The key is to create a timetable where you can do it consistently every single working day and allocate dedicated time for activities, including focused work, meetings, breaks, and physical activity (I scheduled my physical activity outside the timetable above).

## Closing

Time management skills are vital for software engineers looking to optimize their career trajectories. By adhering to effective time management, learning to say no, and protecting your time, you can increase productivity, reduce stress, and achieve a better work-life balance. Implement the tips mentioned in this article, and continuously strive to improve your time management skills. Remember, mastering time management is a journey; with practice, patience, and regular evaluation, you can become great at it, leading to a successful and fulfilling software engineering career.

## References

[^1]: Lau, E. (2015). [The Effective Engineer](https://www.effectiveengineer.com/)

[^2]: [Harvard Business Review - The Most Important Practice in Time Management](https://hbr.org/2011/01/the-most-important-practice-i)

[^3]: [Lifehacker - How Long It Takes to Get Back on Track After a Distraction](https://lifehacker.com/how-long-it-takes-to-get-back-on-track-after-a-distract-1720708353)

[^4]: [Centers for Disease Control and Prevention - Physical Activity Guidelines for Americans](https://www.cdc.gov/physicalactivity/basics/adults/index.htm)

---

Commit message:

fix(ayokoding-web): fix link issues and update external URLs
- Fix 26 Hugo format violations (relative to absolute paths)
  - Convert ./profil/ and ./konsep-kunci/ to absolute /id/ paths
  - Updated 15 storage data index files
- Update 21 Microsoft Docs URLs to Microsoft Learn
  - Updated docs.microsoft.com → learn.microsoft.com
  - Affects SQL and F# documentation
- Fix 2 broken external links
  - CDC: Update to current physical activity guidelines URL
  - Lifehacker: Replace with authoritative UC Irvine source
- Update link cache with latest verification results

Files changed: 47 files

apps/ayokoding-web/content/en/rants/2023/time-management-strategies-for-software-engineers-maximizing-productivity-and-success.md, after:

---
title: "Time Management Strategies for Software Engineers: Maximizing Productivity and Success"
date: 2025-03-16T07:20:00+07:00
draft: false
---

**Similar article:** [Strategi Manajemen Waktu untuk Insinyur Perangkat Lunak: Memaksimalkan Produktivitas dan Kesuksesan](/id/celoteh/2023/strategi-manajemen-waktu-untuk-insinyur-perangkat-lunak-memaksimalkan-produktivitas-dan-kesuksesan)

بِسْــــــــــــــــــمِ اللهِ الرَّحْمَنِ الرَّحِيْمِ

In the name of Allah, The Most Gracious and The Most Merciful

July 14, 2023

During my career till now, I have always strived to stick to effective time management and course correction whenever I deviate. Time management is crucial for any software engineer looking to optimize their career trajectory. Managing your time effectively in the fast-paced world of software development can significantly improve your productivity, efficiency, and overall success. This article will explore the importance of time management skills for software engineers and provide practical tips to help you improve.

## Why Time Management Matters for Software Engineers

Time management is a crucial aspect that software engineers should not overlook. Practical time management skills can lead to several benefits that can help you succeed professionally. Here are some of the reasons why time management is essential for software engineers:

1. **Increased Productivity**: Prioritizing tasks, setting realistic goals, and allocating time can help you accomplish more tasks in less time. Doing so can increase your productivity and complete more projects, improving your performance and reputation at work.
2. **Improved Focus**: Managing your time effectively can help you maintain focus on tasks that require your attention. By doing so, you can minimize distractions and deliver high-quality work, which can help you meet deadlines consistently.
3. **Reduced Stress**: Poor time management can cause stress and burnout, negatively impacting mental and physical health. By managing your time effectively, you can create a better work-life balance, reduce stress, and maintain a healthier mindset.
4. **Career Growth**: Time management skills are highly valued in the software engineering industry. Employers appreciate individuals who can effectively manage their time and deliver results consistently. Mastering this skill can enhance your professional reputation and open doors to new opportunities that can further advance your career.

Having good time management skills is not just beneficial for software engineers. It is a valuable skill that can help you become more productive, less stressed, and more successful in all aspects of your life.

## Tips for Improving Time Management Skills

Now that we understand the importance of time management for software engineers let's explore some practical tips to help you improve in this area:

### 1. Set Clear Goals and Prioritize Tasks

Setting clear goals and prioritizing tasks is essential for achieving success in any endeavor. The first step is to define your overall objectives and break them into smaller, more manageable tasks. This will help you focus on what needs to be done and stay on track.

Once you have a list of tasks, it is essential to prioritize them based on their importance and deadlines. Start with the most critical tasks and work your way down. Doing this ensures you make the most of your time and energy.

It's also helpful to set daily, weekly, and monthly goals. This will help you stay motivated and focused on your goals. You'll have a clear roadmap to follow, and you'll be able to measure your progress along the way. For more insights on creating maximum impact, which will be used for prioritization, refer to the book "The Effective Engineer" by Edmond Lau [^1]. This book provides valuable tips and strategies for optimizing your work and achieving your goals most effectively.

By setting clear goals and prioritizing tasks, you'll be able to achieve more in less time. You'll be more productive, more efficient, and more successful. So take the time to plan and prioritize your work, and you'll reap the rewards.

### 2. Use Time-Blocking Techniques

Time management is essential for a productive workday. One effective technique for managing your time is time-blocking. Time-blocking allows you to allocate specific time blocks for different tasks or activities. Doing so allows you to prioritize tasks, reduce distractions, and increase efficiency.

To start time-blocking, create a schedule that outlines dedicated coding time, meetings, research, and breaks. It might help to think about how much time each task realistically requires and factor in some wiggle room for unexpected issues.

One free tool you can use for time-blocking is Google Calendar. It provides a user-friendly interface and lets you easily schedule and manage your time blocks. Not only can you create and color-code events, but you can also set up reminders and notifications.

Using time-blocking techniques, you can make the most of your workday, accomplish more tasks, and reduce stress.

### 3. Minimize Distractions

Identify and minimize distractions that can hinder your productivity. To do so, you can take a few steps, such as turning off notifications on your phone or computer, closing unnecessary tabs or applications, and creating a dedicated workspace without distractions. For instance, you can switch off your phone, stay silent, or keep it in another room to avoid getting distracted. Similarly, you can close any unnecessary applications, tabs, or windows on your computer unrelated to the task. Additionally, it may be helpful to create a distraction-free workspace, such as a quiet room or a desk with no clutter. Consider using productivity tools or browser extensions that can help you stay focused, such as time-tracking apps or website blockers. Minimizing distractions can improve your productivity and get more done in less time.

### 4. Delegate and Collaborate

Delegating tasks and collaborating with team members can be advantageous in several ways. It can help improve team spirit and foster a sense of camaraderie among colleagues. This can lead to better team cohesion and help distribute the workload evenly across team members, thereby improving efficiency.

Effective communication is a critical component of delegation and collaboration. Clear and concise communication ensures that tasks are completed on time and to the desired level of quality. It can also help team members better understand their roles and responsibilities, leading to a more productive and harmonious work environment.

By delegating tasks and collaborating with team members, you can save valuable time and focus on tasks that require your expertise. This can help you perform your duties more effectively and efficiently, improving job performance and career success.

### 5. Take Regular Breaks

Taking regular breaks is essential for maintaining productivity and preventing burnout. Research suggests that the optimal human limit for focusing intensively is around 90 minutes, after which a break is needed [^2].

When taking a break, doing activities that help you relax and refresh your mind is essential. Try stretching, meditating, or walking outside for fresh air. Physical activities during your break can also help improve blood flow and reduce stress levels. Additionally, you can use this time to have a healthy snack or drink water to hydrate yourself.

It is recommended to schedule short breaks, around 30 minutes, every 90 minutes throughout the day (i.e., 3:1 ratio). This will help you recharge and refocus, increasing productivity and better overall well-being. By taking regular breaks, you can avoid burnout and stay motivated throughout your workday.

### 6. Know Your Productive Time

It's essential to identify your most productive and focused time of day. Consider experimenting with different times to determine when you work best. Once you have identified your peak performance period, align your work schedule to maximize productivity. For example, suppose you are most productive in the early morning. In that case, start your office hours earlier, around 7:30. Remember that while taking advantage of your productive time is crucial, it's equally important to maintain a healthy work-life balance. This means that you should also make sure to "get out" of your office hours earlier, allowing you to recharge and take care of other aspects of your life outside of work. By balancing your work schedule and personal life, you can ensure you perform at your best while caring for yourself.

### 7. Varying the Length of Productive Blocks

It's important to understand that not all productive blocks must be the same length. Adhering to the constraint of a maximum of 90 minutes for one cycle of focused work while maintaining a 3:1 ratio of productive time to rest means you can adjust the length of your productive blocks according to the task. For instance, a 60:20 ratio can be appropriate for shorter tasks such as code reviews. However, it's important to note that refocusing between tasks may take up to 23 minutes [^3].

Another factor to consider when varying the length of productive blocks is the type of work you're doing. For instance, if you're working on a particularly difficult or complex task, it may be beneficial to break it down into shorter, more manageable, productive blocks. Conversely, a longer productive block may be more effective if you work on a task requiring much concentration.

It's also worth noting that everyone's working style is different, and what works for one person may not necessarily work for another. That's why it's essential to experiment with different lengths of productive blocks and find what works best for you. Doing so can optimize your productivity and help you achieve your goals more efficiently.

### 8. Take Ownership of Your Time and Learn to Say No

Remember that your time is valuable, and you are the one in control of it. Managing your time correctly and protecting it from distractions and time-consuming tasks is essential. Taking ownership of your schedule means making conscious decisions about allocating your time. Start by setting boundaries and learning to say no when necessary to protect your time.

Prioritizing your tasks and commitments is essential to ensure you don't overextend yourself. Taking on too many responsibilities can lead to burnout and decreased productivity. You can focus on the most critical tasks and dedicate your time to them by learning to say no.

In addition to saying no, you can also learn to delegate tasks to others better suited to handle them. This can free up your time for more important tasks and help you avoid feeling overwhelmed. Remember that taking ownership of your time is an ongoing process, and it's okay to make mistakes and adjust your approach.

### 9. Embrace Flexibility and Allow for Variations

It is essential to remember that you are not a machine, and it is okay to deviate from your routines or miss a task occasionally. However, embracing flexibility and allowing for variations in your schedule can help you stay on track and avoid falling behind. You can do this by creating a flexible schedule that considers unexpected events or new priorities that may arise. For example, you can implement on-call schedules as many tech companies do, adjusting your schedule accordingly. Additionally, it is crucial to account for the team and external agenda, such as meetings, and adjust your schedule accordingly.

Observing when your company allows for a naturally slow-response time can also be beneficial. Use this time for your focus/craftsmanship time. For instance, if your company has a slower pace before 10 in the morning, leverage that time to do some coding/focus time. If you don't have leading responsibilities, you should aim for 5.5-6 hours of net coding time activities, which can be divided into multiple blocks. On the other hand, if you are leading a team, you should aim for half of that.

Don't be too hard on yourself if things don't always go as planned. Instead, learn from the experience and use it to improve your time management skills. Remember, adapting and adjusting your plans is essential, and it is okay to deviate from your routine occasionally as long as you keep your goals in mind.

### 10. Allocating More Time for Physical Activity

Prioritizing your physical well-being by allocating more time for physical activity is essential. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)[^4], allocating at least 150 minutes of moderate-intensity aerobic activity or 75 minutes of vigorous-intensity aerobic activity per week and muscle-strengthening activities at least two days per week is recommended. You can start by taking short walks during your breaks or doing yoga in the morning. You can also join a fitness class or take up a sport you enjoy. Incorporating physical activity into your daily routine can improve overall health, increase energy levels, and better cope with work demands. Additionally, being physically active can help reduce the risk of developing chronic diseases such as heart disease, diabetes, and obesity. So start today by adding more physical activity and taking the first step towards a healthier lifestyle.

### 11. Evaluate and Adjust Regularly

It is crucial to periodically evaluate and adjust your time management program to ensure it is still effective. It is common to become discouraged or uncertain about your progress, especially when waiting for immediate results. However, remaining patient and committed to achieving the compounding effect of optimum time allocation is essential.

When evaluating your time management program, consider the following questions:

- Are you accomplishing your goals on time?
- Have you identified any patterns in how you spend your time?
- Are there any activities that are not contributing to your overall productivity?
- Have you encountered any unexpected obstacles or distractions?

Remember, it is natural to take some time to see the full impact of your efforts. Regularly assessing and adjusting your approach can fine-tune your time management skills and lead to continuous improvements. You may discover new strategies or tools that can help you optimize your time allocation and achieve greater productivity. Reviewing your progress can help you stay motivated and focused on your goals.

### 12. Seek a Supportive Work Environment

A supportive work environment is paramount for implementing effective time management practices. Finding a company that values work-life balance, provides flexible work hours, promotes teamwork, and respects employees’ time is essential. Employees who feel supported and recognized are more productive and motivated to achieve their goals.

If your current company does not provide a conducive environment for time management, consider exploring other opportunities that align with your goals and values. Look for companies with a positive reputation for their culture and work environment. Consider searching for companies that offer wellness programs, professional development opportunities, and mentorship programs to support their employees’ growth.

Additionally, you can seek a mentor or a coach who can help you navigate time management challenges. A mentor or a coach can provide valuable insights and strategies to improve your time management skills. They can also help you identify your strengths and weaknesses and develop a personalized plan to achieve your goals.

Finally, managing your physical and mental health is crucial to managing your time effectively. Make sure to prioritize your sleep, exercise, and healthy eating habits. These habits can help you stay focused, productive, and motivated to achieve your goals.

## Example of a Software Engineer's TimeTable

To provide a practical example, here's a sample timetable based on what I did when I was in a non-leadership role:

| **TIME**      | **ACTIVITY**                                |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------------- |
| 7:00 - 8:30   | **Focus/Craftsmanship Time**                |
| 8:30- 9:00    | **Break and Refreshment**                   |
| 9:00 - 10:00  | **Focus/Craftsmanship Time**                |
| 10:00 - 11:00 | Team and Collaboration Works                |
| 11:00 - 11:45 | **Focus/Craftsmanship Time**                |
| 11:45 - 12:45 | **Break and Refreshment**                   |
| 12:45 - 13:30 | Team and Collaboration Works                |
| 13:30 - 15:00 | **Focus/Craftsmanship Time**                |
| 15:00 - 15:30 | **Break and Refreshment**                   |
| 15:30 - 16:30 | **Focus/Craftsmanship Time**                |
| 16:30 - 17:30 | Team and Collaboration Works                |
| 17:30 - 17:45 | Wrap-up Tasks and Planning for the Next Day |

Note that I start work earlier at 7 AM (Pre COVID pandemic, I came to the office early to avoid traffic jams) because I am a morning person and have 2 hours of breaks in between. With this, I could make around 5 hours and 45 minutes of focus time daily and perform in the 95th+ percentile of my company (from hundreds of software engineers) back then (i.e., based on Gitlab’s statistics).

Please note that this is just an example, and your timetable may vary based on your specific work environment and preferences. The key is to create a timetable where you can do it consistently every single working day and allocate dedicated time for activities, including focused work, meetings, breaks, and physical activity (I scheduled my physical activity outside the timetable above).

## Closing

Time management skills are vital for software engineers looking to optimize their career trajectories. By adhering to effective time management, learning to say no, and protecting your time, you can increase productivity, reduce stress, and achieve a better work-life balance. Implement the tips mentioned in this article, and continuously strive to improve your time management skills. Remember, mastering time management is a journey; with practice, patience, and regular evaluation, you can become great at it, leading to a successful and fulfilling software engineering career.

## References

[^1]: Lau, E. (2015). [The Effective Engineer](https://www.effectiveengineer.com/)

[^2]: [Harvard Business Review - The Most Important Practice in Time Management](https://hbr.org/2011/01/the-most-important-practice-i)

[^3]: [UC Irvine - Regaining Focus in a World of Digital Distractions](https://www.informatics.uci.edu/regaining-focus-in-a-world-of-digital-distractions/)

[^4]: [Centers for Disease Control and Prevention - Physical Activity Guidelines for Americans](https://www.cdc.gov/physical-activity-basics/guidelines/adults.html)

---
