apps/ayokoding-web/content/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/_index.md, before:

---
title: "Programming Languages"
weight: 1100
date: 2025-12-04T00:00:00+07:00
draft: false
---

- [Overview](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/overview)
- [Python](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/python)
  - [Overview](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/python/overview)
  - [Tutorials](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/python/tutorials)
  - [How to](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/python/how-to)
  - [Explanation](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/python/explanation)
  - [Reference](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/python/reference)
- [Java](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java)
  - [Overview](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/overview)
  - [Tutorials](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/tutorials)
  - [How to](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/how-to)
  - [Explanation](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/explanation)
  - [Reference](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/reference)
- [Kotlin](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/kotlin)
  - [Overview](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/kotlin/overview)
  - [Tutorials](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/kotlin/tutorials)
  - [How to](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/kotlin/how-to)
  - [Explanation](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/kotlin/explanation)
  - [Reference](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/kotlin/reference)
- [Golang](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/golang)
  - [Overview](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/golang/overview)
  - [Tutorials](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/golang/tutorials)
  - [How to](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/golang/how-to)
  - [Explanation](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/golang/explanation)
  - [Reference](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/golang/reference)
- [Rust](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/rust)
  - [Overview](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/rust/overview)
  - [Tutorials](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/rust/tutorials)
  - [How to](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/rust/how-to)
  - [Explanation](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/rust/explanation)
  - [Reference](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/rust/reference)
- [Elixir](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/elixir)
  - [Overview](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/elixir/overview)
  - [Tutorials](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/elixir/tutorials)
  - [How to](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/elixir/how-to)
  - [Explanation](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/elixir/explanation)
  - [Reference](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/elixir/reference)
- [Clojure](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/clojure)
  - [Overview](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/clojure/overview)
  - [Tutorials](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/clojure/tutorials)
  - [Explanation](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/clojure/explanation)
  - [Reference](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/clojure/reference)

Commit message:

fix(ayokoding-web): fix broken content links in programming languages
Fix 333+ broken links across 7 programming languages (Python, Java, Kotlin,
Golang, Rust, Elixir, Clojure) by updating old Diátaxis structure references
to new dual-path structure.

Changes:
- Replace /tutorials/by-concept/ → /by-concept/ (92 occurrences)
- Replace /tutorials/by-example/ → /by-example/ (56 occurrences)
- Replace /tutorials/{level} → /by-concept/{level} (35 occurrences)
- Remove initial-setup and quick-start references (53 occurrences)
- Remove /how-to/ references (79 occurrences)
- Remove /explanation/ references (44 occurrences)
- Remove /reference/ references (27 occurrences)
- Update 7 language overview.md files with correct structure
- Fix Clojure overview to reflect by-example-only structure

All content now correctly references /by-concept/ and /by-example/ paths.

Affected files: ~81 markdown files across overview.md, by-concept/, and
by-example/ directories.

apps/ayokoding-web/content/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/_index.md, after:

---
title: "Programming Languages"
weight: 1100
date: 2025-12-04T00:00:00+07:00
draft: false
---

- [Overview](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/overview)
- [Python](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/python)
  - [Overview](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/python/overview)
  - [By Example](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/python/by-example)
  - [By Concept](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/python/by-concept)
- [Java](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java)
  - [Overview](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/overview)
  - [By Example](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/by-example)
  - [By Concept](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/by-concept)
- [Kotlin](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/kotlin)
  - [Overview](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/kotlin/overview)
  - [By Example](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/kotlin/by-example)
  - [By Concept](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/kotlin/by-concept)
- [Golang](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/golang)
  - [Overview](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/golang/overview)
  - [By Example](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/golang/by-example)
  - [By Concept](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/golang/by-concept)
- [Rust](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/rust)
  - [Overview](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/rust/overview)
  - [By Example](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/rust/by-example)
  - [By Concept](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/rust/by-concept)
- [Elixir](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/elixir)
  - [Overview](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/elixir/overview)
  - [By Example](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/elixir/by-example)
  - [By Concept](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/elixir/by-concept)
- [Clojure](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/clojure)
  - [Overview](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/clojure/overview)
  - [By Example](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/clojure/by-example)
