apps/ayokoding-web/content/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/overview.md, before:

---
title: Overview
date: 2025-12-04T00:00:00+07:00
draft: false
weight: 10000
---

Master programming languages from fundamentals to advanced patterns. Each language tutorial series provides a complete learning path from setup to expert mastery.

## Learning Path

Languages are ordered pedagogically from easiest to most specialized:

### 1. [Python](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/python) - Best for Beginners

Start here if you're new to programming. Python's simple syntax lets you focus on concepts, not memorizing rules.

- [Tutorials](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/python/tutorials) - Initial Setup, Quick Start, Beginner, Intermediate, Advanced
- [How-To Guides](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/python/how-to) - Practical solutions for common problems
- [Explanation](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/python/explanation) - Best practices and anti-patterns

**Why Python first?** Simplest syntax, dynamically typed, focuses on problem-solving over syntax rules, extensive libraries, widely used in education and industry.

### 2. [Java](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java) - Foundational OOP Language

Learn static typing and object-oriented programming principles. Java's verbosity teaches explicit thinking and is an industry standard.

- [Tutorials](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/tutorials) - Initial Setup, Quick Start, Beginner, Intermediate, Advanced
- [How-To Guides](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/how-to) - Practical solutions for common problems
- [Explanation](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/explanation) - Best practices and anti-patterns

**Why Java second?** Introduces static typing explicitly, teaches OOP clearly, enterprise-grade, builds on programming concepts from Python.

### 3. [Kotlin](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/kotlin) - Modern JVM Language

Modern Java alternative with concise syntax, null safety, and functional programming features. Best learned after understanding Java.

- [Tutorials](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/kotlin/tutorials) - Initial Setup, Quick Start, Beginner, Intermediate, Advanced
- [How-To Guides](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/kotlin/how-to) - Practical solutions for common problems
- [Explanation](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/kotlin/explanation) - Best practices and anti-patterns

**Why Kotlin third?** Interoperates with Java, more concise, modern features (null safety, coroutines), functional + OOP hybrid.

### 4. [Golang](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/golang) - Systems & Concurrent Programming

Minimalist language focused on simplicity and concurrency. Different paradigm from Python/Java/Kotlin, best as third or fourth language.

- [Tutorials](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/golang/tutorials) - Initial Setup, Quick Start, Beginner, Intermediate, Advanced
- [How-To Guides](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/golang/how-to) - Practical solutions for common problems
- [Explanation](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/golang/explanation) - Best practices and anti-patterns

**Why Golang fourth?** Different paradigm (simplicity over features), concurrency primitives (goroutines, channels), systems programming concepts.

### 5. [Rust](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/rust) - Memory Safety & Systems Programming

Advanced systems language with ownership model for memory safety without garbage collection. Steep learning curve, best learned after solid foundation in other languages.

- [Tutorials](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/rust/tutorials) - Initial Setup, Quick Start, Beginner, Intermediate, Advanced
- [How-To Guides](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/rust/how-to) - Practical solutions for common problems
- [Explanation](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/rust/explanation) - Best practices and anti-patterns

**Why Rust fifth?** Unique ownership system (requires strong fundamentals), compile-time memory safety (prevents entire bug classes), zero-cost abstractions, fearless concurrency, ideal for performance-critical systems.

## Tutorial Structure

Each language follows a consistent learning path:

1. **Initial Setup** (0-5%) - Get the language installed and running
2. **Quick Start** (5-30%) - Learn core syntax to explore independently
3. **Beginner** (0-60%) - Comprehensive fundamentals from scratch
4. **Intermediate** (60-85%) - Production techniques for real systems
5. **Advanced** (85-95%) - Expert mastery of internals and optimization
6. **Cookbook** (Parallel track) - Practical recipes for common problems

## Learning Approach

- **Hands-on**: Learn by building real projects
- **Progressive**: Start simple, gradually increase complexity
- **Practical**: Focus on real-world applications
- **Complete**: Full coverage from basics to advanced topics

Commit message:

fix(ayokoding-web): fix broken content links in programming languages
Fix 333+ broken links across 7 programming languages (Python, Java, Kotlin,
Golang, Rust, Elixir, Clojure) by updating old Diátaxis structure references
to new dual-path structure.

Changes:
- Replace /tutorials/by-concept/ → /by-concept/ (92 occurrences)
- Replace /tutorials/by-example/ → /by-example/ (56 occurrences)
- Replace /tutorials/{level} → /by-concept/{level} (35 occurrences)
- Remove initial-setup and quick-start references (53 occurrences)
- Remove /how-to/ references (79 occurrences)
- Remove /explanation/ references (44 occurrences)
- Remove /reference/ references (27 occurrences)
- Update 7 language overview.md files with correct structure
- Fix Clojure overview to reflect by-example-only structure

All content now correctly references /by-concept/ and /by-example/ paths.

Affected files: ~81 markdown files across overview.md, by-concept/, and
by-example/ directories.

apps/ayokoding-web/content/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/overview.md, after:

---
title: Overview
date: 2025-12-04T00:00:00+07:00
draft: false
weight: 10000
---

Master programming languages from fundamentals to advanced patterns. Each language tutorial series provides a complete learning path from setup to expert mastery.

## Learning Path

Languages are ordered pedagogically from easiest to most specialized:

### 1. [Python](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/python) - Best for Beginners

Start here if you're new to programming. Python's simple syntax lets you focus on concepts, not memorizing rules.

- [By Example](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/python/by-example) - Code-first learning with 80+ annotated examples
- [By Concept](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/python/by-concept) - Narrative tutorials from fundamentals to advanced

**Why Python first?** Simplest syntax, dynamically typed, focuses on problem-solving over syntax rules, extensive libraries, widely used in education and industry.

### 2. [Java](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java) - Foundational OOP Language

Learn static typing and object-oriented programming principles. Java's verbosity teaches explicit thinking and is an industry standard.

- [By Example](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/by-example) - Code-first learning with 80+ annotated examples
- [By Concept](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/java/by-concept) - Narrative tutorials from fundamentals to advanced

**Why Java second?** Introduces static typing explicitly, teaches OOP clearly, enterprise-grade, builds on programming concepts from Python.

### 3. [Kotlin](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/kotlin) - Modern JVM Language

Modern Java alternative with concise syntax, null safety, and functional programming features. Best learned after understanding Java.

- [By Example](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/kotlin/by-example) - Code-first learning with 80+ annotated examples
- [By Concept](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/kotlin/by-concept) - Narrative tutorials from fundamentals to advanced

**Why Kotlin third?** Interoperates with Java, more concise, modern features (null safety, coroutines), functional + OOP hybrid.

### 4. [Golang](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/golang) - Systems & Concurrent Programming

Minimalist language focused on simplicity and concurrency. Different paradigm from Python/Java/Kotlin, best as third or fourth language.

- [By Example](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/golang/by-example) - Code-first learning with 80+ annotated examples
- [By Concept](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/golang/by-concept) - Narrative tutorials from fundamentals to advanced

**Why Golang fourth?** Different paradigm (simplicity over features), concurrency primitives (goroutines, channels), systems programming concepts.

### 5. [Rust](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/rust) - Memory Safety & Systems Programming

Advanced systems language with ownership model for memory safety without garbage collection. Steep learning curve, best learned after solid foundation in other languages.

- [By Example](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/rust/by-example) - Code-first learning with 80+ annotated examples
- [By Concept](/en/learn/software-engineering/programming-languages/rust/by-concept) - Narrative tutorials from fundamentals to advanced

**Why Rust fifth?** Unique ownership system (requires strong fundamentals), compile-time memory safety (prevents entire bug classes), zero-cost abstractions, fearless concurrency, ideal for performance-critical systems.

## Tutorial Structure

Each language follows a consistent learning path:

1. **Initial Setup** (0-5%) - Get the language installed and running
2. **Quick Start** (5-30%) - Learn core syntax to explore independently
3. **Beginner** (0-60%) - Comprehensive fundamentals from scratch
4. **Intermediate** (60-85%) - Production techniques for real systems
5. **Advanced** (85-95%) - Expert mastery of internals and optimization
6. **Cookbook** (Parallel track) - Practical recipes for common problems

## Learning Approach

- **Hands-on**: Learn by building real projects
- **Progressive**: Start simple, gradually increase complexity
- **Practical**: Focus on real-world applications
- **Complete**: Full coverage from basics to advanced topics
