governance/workflows/README.md, before:

# Workflows Index

**Purpose**: Orchestrated multi-step processes that compose AI agents to achieve specific goals with clear termination criteria.

**Layer**: 5th layer in repository hierarchy (orchestrates Layer 4 agents)

## What Are Workflows?

Workflows are **composed processes** that:

- 🔄 Orchestrate multiple AI agents in sequence
- 🎯 Have clear goals and termination criteria
- 📊 Manage state between steps
- ⚡ Support parallel, sequential, and conditional execution
- 👤 Include human approval checkpoints
- ♻️ Are reusable and composable

**Key insight**: Workflows are to Agents what Agents are to Tools - a composition layer.

## Repository Hierarchy

Workflows are **Layer 5** in the six-layer architecture. See [Repository Governance Architecture](../repository-governance-architecture.md) for complete governance model.

```
Layer 0: Vision (WHY WE EXIST)     → Foundational purpose
Layer 1: Principles (WHY)          → Foundational values
Layer 2: Conventions (WHAT)        → Documentation rules
Layer 3: Development (HOW)         → Software practices
Layer 4: AI Agents (WHO)           → Atomic task executors
Layer 5: Workflows (WHEN)          → Multi-step processes ← YOU ARE HERE
```

## Quick Start

### Understanding Workflows

1. Read [Workflow Pattern Convention](./meta/workflow-identifier.md) for structure and rules
2. Create workflows as needed following the convention patterns
3. Review workflow families below

### Using Workflows

Workflows are executed through **manual orchestration** - the AI assistant follows workflow steps directly using Read/Write/Edit tools in the main execution context. This ensures file changes persist to the actual filesystem.

**How to execute workflows**:

```
User: "Run [workflow-name] workflow for [scope] in [mode] mode"
```

The AI will execute the workflow logic directly, orchestrating checker-fixer cycles until termination criteria are met.

All workflows support standard input parameters:

- **mode**: Quality threshold (lax/normal/strict/ocd) - default: normal
- **max-concurrency**: Parallel execution limit - default: 2
- **min-iterations**: Minimum check-fix cycles - optional
- **max-iterations**: Maximum check-fix cycles - optional

**Future**: Automated workflow executor agent (not yet implemented).

## Available Workflows

| Workflow                                                                                                                  | Purpose                                                                                                                                                                               | Agents Used                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | Complexity |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------- |
| [Repository Rules Validation](./repository/repository-rules-validation.md)                                                | Validate repository consistency and apply fixes iteratively until ZERO findings                                                                                                       | repo-governance-checker, repo-governance-fixer                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | Medium     |
| [Plan Quality Gate](./plan/plan-quality-gate.md)                                                                          | Validate plan completeness and accuracy, apply fixes iteratively until ZERO findings                                                                                                  | plan-checker, plan-fixer                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | Medium     |
| [Plan Execution](./plan/plan-execution.md)                                                                                | Execute plan tasks systematically with validation and completion tracking                                                                                                             | plan-executor, plan-execution-checker                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Medium     |
| [Documentation Quality Gate](./docs/quality-gate.md)                                                                      | Validate all docs/ content quality (factual accuracy, pedagogical structure, link validity), apply fixes iteratively until ZERO findings                                              | docs-checker, docs-tutorial-checker, docs-link-general-checker, docs-fixer, docs-tutorial-fixer                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | High       |
| [AyoKoding Web General Quality Gate](./ayokoding-web/ayokoding-web-general-quality-gate.md)                               | Validate all ayokoding-web content quality (Hugo conventions, factual accuracy, structure, links), apply fixes iteratively until ZERO findings, then regenerate titles and navigation | apps-ayokoding-web-general-checker, apps-ayokoding-web-facts-checker, apps-ayokoding-web-structure-checker, apps-ayokoding-web-link-checker, apps-ayokoding-web-general-fixer, apps-ayokoding-web-facts-fixer, apps-ayokoding-web-structure-fixer, apps-ayokoding-web-title-maker, apps-ayokoding-web-navigation-maker | High       |
| [AyoKoding Web By-Example Quality Gate](./ayokoding-web/ayokoding-web-by-example-quality-gate.md)                         | Validate by-example tutorial quality (95% coverage through 75-90 examples) and apply fixes iteratively until EXCELLENT status achieved                                                | apps-ayokoding-web-by-example-checker, apps-ayokoding-web-by-example-fixer                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | Medium     |
| [AyoKoding Web In-the-Field Quality Gate](./ayokoding-web/ayokoding-web-in-the-field-quality-gate.md)                     | Validate in-the-field production guide quality and apply fixes iteratively until EXCELLENT status achieved                                                                            | apps-ayokoding-web-in-the-field-checker, apps-ayokoding-web-in-the-field-fixer                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | Medium     |
| [Documentation Software Engineering Separation Quality Gate](./docs/docs-software-engineering-separation-quality-gate.md) | Validate software engineering documentation separation between OSE Platform style guides and AyoKoding educational content, apply fixes iteratively until ZERO findings               | docs-software-engineering-separation-checker, docs-software-engineering-separation-fixer                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | Medium     |

All _-quality-gate workflows follow the [_-check-fix Workflow Pattern](./meta/workflow-identifier.md#-check-fix-workflow-pattern) which fixes ALL findings (CRITICAL, HIGH, MEDIUM, LOW criticality levels) and iterates until ZERO findings remain.

## Workflow Families

### Documentation Workflows

Workflows for creating and validating documentation:

- **docs**: Project documentation (tutorials, how-to, reference, explanation)
- **readme**: README.md quality and engagement
- **plan**: Project planning documents

### Hugo Content Workflows

Workflows for Hugo website content:

- **ayokoding-web**: ayokoding-web content creation and validation
- **ayokoding-facts**: Factual accuracy validation for ayokoding-web
- **ayokoding-structure**: Navigation structure and weight management
- **oseplatform-web-content**: oseplatform-web content

### Repository Governance Workflows

Workflows for repository rules:

- **repo-rules**: Validate consistency across principles, conventions, development, agents, AGENTS.md

## Execution Modes

Workflows support three execution patterns:

### Sequential

Steps execute one after another:

```
Step 1 → Step 2 → Step 3 → Step 4
```

Later steps can reference outputs from earlier steps.

**Use when:** Step N requires outputs from step N-1 (e.g., Maker-Checker-Fixer where fixer needs checker's audit report).

### Parallel

Steps execute simultaneously:

```
        ┌─ Step 2a ─┐
Step 1 ─┼─ Step 2b ─┼─ Step 3
        └─ Step 2c ─┘
```

Improves efficiency when steps are independent.

**Use when:** Steps are independent and can run simultaneously for speed (e.g., validating multiple content types in parallel).

### Conditional

Steps execute only if conditions are met:

```
Step 1 → Step 2 (checkpoint) → Step 3 (if approved)
                            └→ Skip to Step 5 (if rejected)
```

Enables branching logic and human decision points.

**Use when:** Workflow branches based on user decisions or validation results (e.g., deploy to production only if tests pass).

## Human Checkpoints

Workflows pause for user approval at critical points:

- 🔍 **Review audit reports** - Before applying fixes
- ✅ **Approve deployments** - Before pushing to production
- 🎯 **Choose approach** - When multiple valid options exist
- 🛑 **Handle errors** - When automated recovery is insufficient

Human checkpoints use the `AskUserQuestion` tool.

## State Management

Workflows pass data between steps using references:

- `{input.name}` - Workflow input parameters
- `{stepN.outputs.name}` - Output from step N
- `{stepN.status}` - Status of step N (success/fail/partial)
- `{stepN.user-approved}` - User decision from checkpoint

## Workflow vs Plans

| Aspect    | Plans                              | Workflows                                    |
| --------- | ---------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------- |
| Purpose   | Strategic planning (WHAT to build) | Tactical execution (HOW to build)            |
| Audience  | Humans                             | Agents + Humans                              |
| Format    | Free-form Markdown                 | Structured Markdown with YAML                |
| Execution | Manual, guided by human            | Automated, orchestrated by workflow executor |
| Lifecycle | Created → Updated → Archived       | Created → Executed repeatedly → Deprecated   |
| Location  | `plans/` directory                 | `governance/workflows/`                      |

**Relationship**: Plans can reference workflows ("Use deployment-workflow for release"). Workflows can be generated from plan checklists.

## Creating New Workflows

To create a new workflow:

1. **Identify need**: 2 or more agents in sequence, or repeated process, or complex orchestration
2. **Design structure**: Define inputs, steps, outputs, goals, termination criteria
3. **Write workflow file**: Use `ex-wf__[name].md` naming pattern
4. **Document thoroughly**: Purpose, when to use, example usage, related workflows
5. **Validate**: Check frontmatter schema, agent references, dependencies
6. **Test manually**: Run workflow steps to verify correctness
7. **Add to index**: Update this README with workflow description

See [Workflow Pattern Convention](./meta/workflow-identifier.md) for complete requirements.

## Validation

All workflows should be validated for:

- ✅ **Frontmatter completeness** - All required fields present
- ✅ **Agent existence** - All referenced agents exist in `.claude/agents/` (primary) or `.opencode/agent/` (secondary)
- ✅ **Type correctness** - Inputs/outputs use valid types
- ✅ **Dependency acyclicity** - No circular step dependencies
- ✅ **Reference resolution** - All `{stepN.outputs}` references resolve
- ✅ **File naming** - Follows `ex-wf__*` pattern
- ✅ **Documentation quality** - Clear purpose, examples, termination criteria

Future: `workflow-validator` agent will automate this validation.

## Metrics and Observability

Track workflow performance:

- **Execution count** - How often workflows run
- **Success rate** - Percentage reaching "success" termination
- **Failure modes** - Common reasons for "partial" or "fail"
- **Step duration** - Time spent in each step (if measured)
- **Human intervention** - How often checkpoints pause workflows

## Principles Implemented/Respected

All workflows must respect core principles:

- ✅ **Explicit Over Implicit** - All steps, dependencies, conditions visible
- ✅ **Automation Over Manual** - Automate complex multi-step processes
- ✅ **Simplicity Over Complexity** - Break complex workflows into smaller ones
- ✅ **Progressive Disclosure** - Simple workflows stay simple
- ✅ **Accessibility First** - Human-readable format, clear documentation
- ✅ **No Time Estimates** - Define WHAT and HOW, not WHEN or HOW LONG

## Related Documentation

### Core Documentation

- [Workflow Pattern Convention](./meta/workflow-identifier.md) - How workflows are structured
- [Maker-Checker-Fixer Pattern](../development/pattern/maker-checker-fixer.md) - Core workflow pattern
- [AI Agents Convention](../development/agents/ai-agents.md) - How agents work

### Supporting Documentation

- [Fixer Confidence Levels](../development/quality/fixer-confidence-levels.md) - How fixers assess changes
- [Content Preservation](../development/quality/content-preservation.md) - Preserving meaning during fixes
- [Temporary Files](../development/infra/temporary-files.md) - Where workflow outputs go
- [Plans Organization](../conventions/structure/plans.md) - How plans relate to workflows

### Layer Documentation

- [Repository Governance Architecture](../repository-governance-architecture.md) - Complete six-layer architecture explanation
- [Vision](../vision/open-sharia-enterprise.md) - Layer 0: Foundational purpose
- [Core Principles](../principles/README.md) - Layer 1: Foundational values
- [Conventions](../conventions/README.md) - Layer 2: Documentation rules
- [Development](../development/README.md) - Layer 3: Software practices
- [AI Agents](../../.claude/agents/README.md) - Layer 4: Task executors

## Future Enhancements

Planned workflow features:

- 🤖 **Workflow Executor Agent** - Automate workflow execution
- 📊 **Workflow Visualization** - Auto-generate diagrams from definitions
- 🧪 **Workflow Testing** - Dry-run mode, validation suite
- 📈 **Metrics Dashboard** - Track workflow performance
- 🔄 **Workflow Composition** - Nest workflows within workflows
- ⏱️ **Timeouts and Retries** - Handle long-running or failing steps
- 🔙 **Rollback Support** - Undo steps on failure

## Questions?

- **What is a workflow?** - A composed multi-step process orchestrating agents
- **When should I create a workflow?** - When 2 or more agents are used repeatedly in sequence
- **How do I run a workflow?** - Use manual orchestration (see "Using Workflows" above)
- **Can workflows call other workflows?** - Yes, workflows are composable
- **Do workflows replace agents?** - No, workflows orchestrate agents
- **Do workflows replace plans?** - No, plans are strategic, workflows are tactical

See [Workflow Pattern Convention](./meta/workflow-identifier.md) and [Execution Modes Convention](./meta/execution-modes.md) for comprehensive answers.

Commit message:

chore(governance): apply governance checker improvements to agents and docs
Apply findings from previous governance-checker/fixer workflow run:

- Update agent role labels (Implementor → Updater/yellow for fixer agents)
- Remove duplicated mode handling from agent files (reference skill instead)
- Expand emoji convention scope (governance/, AGENTS.md, .opencode/agent/)
- Update AGENTS.md with improved skill and agent descriptions
- Update CLAUDE.md with fork skill description and emoji convention
- Add frontmatter to governance/repository-governance-architecture.md
- Expand convention categories in repository architecture doc
- Update governance/workflows/ with improved agent references
- Update governance/development/ docs with convention/principle links
- Fix MD038 lint error in docs-maker.md (spaces in code span)

governance/workflows/README.md, after:

---
title: "Workflows"
description: Orchestrated multi-step processes that compose AI agents for systematic content creation, validation, and remediation
category: explanation
tags:
  - index
  - workflows
  - orchestration
  - agents
created: 2026-01-04
updated: 2026-02-22
---

# Workflows Index

**Purpose**: Orchestrated multi-step processes that compose AI agents to achieve specific goals with clear termination criteria.

**Layer**: 5th layer in repository hierarchy (orchestrates Layer 4 agents)

## What Are Workflows?

Workflows are **composed processes** that:

- 🔄 Orchestrate multiple AI agents in sequence
- 🎯 Have clear goals and termination criteria
- 📊 Manage state between steps
- ⚡ Support parallel, sequential, and conditional execution
- 👤 Include human approval checkpoints
- ♻️ Are reusable and composable

**Key insight**: Workflows are to Agents what Agents are to Tools - a composition layer.

## Repository Hierarchy

Workflows are **Layer 5** in the six-layer architecture. See [Repository Governance Architecture](../repository-governance-architecture.md) for complete governance model.

```
Layer 0: Vision (WHY WE EXIST)     → Foundational purpose
Layer 1: Principles (WHY)          → Foundational values
Layer 2: Conventions (WHAT)        → Documentation rules
Layer 3: Development (HOW)         → Software practices
Layer 4: AI Agents (WHO)           → Atomic task executors
Layer 5: Workflows (WHEN)          → Multi-step processes ← YOU ARE HERE
```

## Quick Start

### Understanding Workflows

1. Read [Workflow Pattern Convention](./meta/workflow-identifier.md) for structure and rules
2. Create workflows as needed following the convention patterns
3. Review workflow families below

### Using Workflows

Workflows are executed through **manual orchestration** - the AI assistant follows workflow steps directly using Read/Write/Edit tools in the main execution context. This ensures file changes persist to the actual filesystem.

**How to execute workflows**:

```
User: "Run [workflow-name] workflow for [scope] in [mode] mode"
```

The AI will execute the workflow logic directly, orchestrating checker-fixer cycles until termination criteria are met.

All workflows support standard input parameters:

- **mode**: Quality threshold (lax/normal/strict/ocd) - default: normal
- **max-concurrency**: Parallel execution limit - default: 2
- **min-iterations**: Minimum check-fix cycles - optional
- **max-iterations**: Maximum check-fix cycles - optional

**Future**: Automated workflow executor agent (not yet implemented).

## Available Workflows

| Workflow                                                                                                                  | Purpose                                                                                                                                                                               | Agents Used                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | Complexity |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------- |
| [Repository Rules Validation](./repository/repository-rules-validation.md)                                                | Validate repository consistency and apply fixes iteratively until ZERO findings                                                                                                       | repo-governance-checker, repo-governance-fixer                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | Medium     |
| [Plan Quality Gate](./plan/plan-quality-gate.md)                                                                          | Validate plan completeness and accuracy, apply fixes iteratively until ZERO findings                                                                                                  | plan-checker, plan-fixer                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | Medium     |
| [Plan Execution](./plan/plan-execution.md)                                                                                | Execute plan tasks systematically with validation and completion tracking                                                                                                             | plan-executor, plan-execution-checker                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Medium     |
| [Documentation Quality Gate](./docs/quality-gate.md)                                                                      | Validate all docs/ content quality (factual accuracy, pedagogical structure, link validity), apply fixes iteratively until ZERO findings                                              | docs-checker, docs-tutorial-checker, docs-link-general-checker, docs-fixer, docs-tutorial-fixer                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | High       |
| [AyoKoding Web General Quality Gate](./ayokoding-web/ayokoding-web-general-quality-gate.md)                               | Validate all ayokoding-web content quality (Hugo conventions, factual accuracy, structure, links), apply fixes iteratively until ZERO findings, then regenerate titles and navigation | apps-ayokoding-web-general-checker, apps-ayokoding-web-facts-checker, apps-ayokoding-web-structure-checker, apps-ayokoding-web-link-checker, apps-ayokoding-web-general-fixer, apps-ayokoding-web-facts-fixer, apps-ayokoding-web-structure-fixer, apps-ayokoding-web-title-maker, apps-ayokoding-web-navigation-maker | High       |
| [AyoKoding Web By-Example Quality Gate](./ayokoding-web/ayokoding-web-by-example-quality-gate.md)                         | Validate by-example tutorial quality (95% coverage through 75-90 examples) and apply fixes iteratively until EXCELLENT status achieved                                                | apps-ayokoding-web-by-example-checker, apps-ayokoding-web-by-example-fixer                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | Medium     |
| [AyoKoding Web In-the-Field Quality Gate](./ayokoding-web/ayokoding-web-in-the-field-quality-gate.md)                     | Validate in-the-field production guide quality and apply fixes iteratively until EXCELLENT status achieved                                                                            | apps-ayokoding-web-in-the-field-checker, apps-ayokoding-web-in-the-field-fixer                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | Medium     |
| [Documentation Software Engineering Separation Quality Gate](./docs/docs-software-engineering-separation-quality-gate.md) | Validate software engineering documentation separation between OSE Platform style guides and AyoKoding educational content, apply fixes iteratively until ZERO findings               | docs-software-engineering-separation-checker, docs-software-engineering-separation-fixer                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | Medium     |

All _-quality-gate workflows follow the [_-check-fix Workflow Pattern](./meta/workflow-identifier.md#-check-fix-workflow-pattern) which fixes ALL findings (CRITICAL, HIGH, MEDIUM, LOW criticality levels) and iterates until ZERO findings remain.

## Workflow Families

### Documentation Workflows

Workflows for creating and validating documentation:

- **docs**: Project documentation (tutorials, how-to, reference, explanation)
- **readme**: README.md quality and engagement
- **plan**: Project planning documents

### Hugo Content Workflows

Workflows for Hugo website content:

- **ayokoding-web**: ayokoding-web content creation and validation
- **ayokoding-facts**: Factual accuracy validation for ayokoding-web
- **ayokoding-structure**: Navigation structure and weight management
- **oseplatform-web-content**: oseplatform-web content

### Repository Governance Workflows

Workflows for repository rules:

- **repo-rules**: Validate consistency across principles, conventions, development, agents, AGENTS.md

## Execution Modes

Workflows support three execution patterns:

### Sequential

Steps execute one after another:

```
Step 1 → Step 2 → Step 3 → Step 4
```

Later steps can reference outputs from earlier steps.

**Use when:** Step N requires outputs from step N-1 (e.g., Maker-Checker-Fixer where fixer needs checker's audit report).

### Parallel

Steps execute simultaneously:

```
        ┌─ Step 2a ─┐
Step 1 ─┼─ Step 2b ─┼─ Step 3
        └─ Step 2c ─┘
```

Improves efficiency when steps are independent.

**Use when:** Steps are independent and can run simultaneously for speed (e.g., validating multiple content types in parallel).

### Conditional

Steps execute only if conditions are met:

```
Step 1 → Step 2 (checkpoint) → Step 3 (if approved)
                            └→ Skip to Step 5 (if rejected)
```

Enables branching logic and human decision points.

**Use when:** Workflow branches based on user decisions or validation results (e.g., deploy to production only if tests pass).

## Human Checkpoints

Workflows pause for user approval at critical points:

- 🔍 **Review audit reports** - Before applying fixes
- ✅ **Approve deployments** - Before pushing to production
- 🎯 **Choose approach** - When multiple valid options exist
- 🛑 **Handle errors** - When automated recovery is insufficient

Human checkpoints use the `AskUserQuestion` tool.

## State Management

Workflows pass data between steps using references:

- `{input.name}` - Workflow input parameters
- `{stepN.outputs.name}` - Output from step N
- `{stepN.status}` - Status of step N (success/fail/partial)
- `{stepN.user-approved}` - User decision from checkpoint

## Workflow vs Plans

| Aspect    | Plans                              | Workflows                                    |
| --------- | ---------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------- |
| Purpose   | Strategic planning (WHAT to build) | Tactical execution (HOW to build)            |
| Audience  | Humans                             | Agents + Humans                              |
| Format    | Free-form Markdown                 | Structured Markdown with YAML                |
| Execution | Manual, guided by human            | Automated, orchestrated by workflow executor |
| Lifecycle | Created → Updated → Archived       | Created → Executed repeatedly → Deprecated   |
| Location  | `plans/` directory                 | `governance/workflows/`                      |

**Relationship**: Plans can reference workflows ("Use deployment-workflow for release"). Workflows can be generated from plan checklists.

## Creating New Workflows

To create a new workflow:

1. **Identify need**: 2 or more agents in sequence, or repeated process, or complex orchestration
2. **Design structure**: Define inputs, steps, outputs, goals, termination criteria
3. **Write workflow file**: Use plain descriptive name in the appropriate subdirectory of `governance/workflows/[category]/`
4. **Document thoroughly**: Purpose, when to use, example usage, related workflows
5. **Validate**: Check frontmatter schema, agent references, dependencies
6. **Test manually**: Run workflow steps to verify correctness
7. **Add to index**: Update this README with workflow description

See [Workflow Pattern Convention](./meta/workflow-identifier.md) for complete requirements.

## Validation

All workflows should be validated for:

- ✅ **Frontmatter completeness** - All required fields present
- ✅ **Agent existence** - All referenced agents exist in `.claude/agents/` (primary) or `.opencode/agent/` (secondary)
- ✅ **Type correctness** - Inputs/outputs use valid types
- ✅ **Dependency acyclicity** - No circular step dependencies
- ✅ **Reference resolution** - All `{stepN.outputs}` references resolve
- ✅ **File naming** - Plain name in correct subdirectory of `governance/workflows/`
- ✅ **Documentation quality** - Clear purpose, examples, termination criteria

Future: `workflow-validator` agent will automate this validation.

## Metrics and Observability

Track workflow performance:

- **Execution count** - How often workflows run
- **Success rate** - Percentage reaching "success" termination
- **Failure modes** - Common reasons for "partial" or "fail"
- **Step duration** - Time spent in each step (if measured)
- **Human intervention** - How often checkpoints pause workflows

## Principles Implemented/Respected

All workflows must respect core principles:

- ✅ **Explicit Over Implicit** - All steps, dependencies, conditions visible
- ✅ **Automation Over Manual** - Automate complex multi-step processes
- ✅ **Simplicity Over Complexity** - Break complex workflows into smaller ones
- ✅ **Progressive Disclosure** - Simple workflows stay simple
- ✅ **Accessibility First** - Human-readable format, clear documentation
- ✅ **No Time Estimates** - Define WHAT and HOW, not WHEN or HOW LONG

## Related Documentation

### Core Documentation

- [Workflow Pattern Convention](./meta/workflow-identifier.md) - How workflows are structured
- [Maker-Checker-Fixer Pattern](../development/pattern/maker-checker-fixer.md) - Core workflow pattern
- [AI Agents Convention](../development/agents/ai-agents.md) - How agents work

### Supporting Documentation

- [Fixer Confidence Levels](../development/quality/fixer-confidence-levels.md) - How fixers assess changes
- [Content Preservation](../development/quality/content-preservation.md) - Preserving meaning during fixes
- [Temporary Files](../development/infra/temporary-files.md) - Where workflow outputs go
- [Plans Organization](../conventions/structure/plans.md) - How plans relate to workflows

### Layer Documentation

- [Repository Governance Architecture](../repository-governance-architecture.md) - Complete six-layer architecture explanation
- [Vision](../vision/open-sharia-enterprise.md) - Layer 0: Foundational purpose
- [Core Principles](../principles/README.md) - Layer 1: Foundational values
- [Conventions](../conventions/README.md) - Layer 2: Documentation rules
- [Development](../development/README.md) - Layer 3: Software practices
- [AI Agents](../../.claude/agents/README.md) - Layer 4: Task executors

## Future Enhancements

Planned workflow features:

- 🤖 **Workflow Executor Agent** - Automate workflow execution
- 📊 **Workflow Visualization** - Auto-generate diagrams from definitions
- 🧪 **Workflow Testing** - Dry-run mode, validation suite
- 📈 **Metrics Dashboard** - Track workflow performance
- 🔄 **Workflow Composition** - Nest workflows within workflows
- ⏱️ **Timeouts and Retries** - Handle long-running or failing steps
- 🔙 **Rollback Support** - Undo steps on failure

## Questions?

- **What is a workflow?** - A composed multi-step process orchestrating agents
- **When should I create a workflow?** - When 2 or more agents are used repeatedly in sequence
- **How do I run a workflow?** - Use manual orchestration (see "Using Workflows" above)
- **Can workflows call other workflows?** - Yes, workflows are composable
- **Do workflows replace agents?** - No, workflows orchestrate agents
- **Do workflows replace plans?** - No, plans are strategic, workflows are tactical

See [Workflow Pattern Convention](./meta/workflow-identifier.md) and [Execution Modes Convention](./meta/execution-modes.md) for comprehensive answers.
