governance/development/infra/anti-patterns.md, before:

# Anti-Patterns in Infrastructure Development

> **Companion Document**: For positive guidance on what to do, see [Best Practices](./best-practices.md)

## Overview

Understanding common mistakes in development infrastructure management helps teams build more organized, traceable, and maintainable systems. These anti-patterns cause clutter, traceability issues, and operational problems.

## Purpose

This document provides:

- Common anti-patterns in infrastructure development
- Examples of problematic implementations
- Solutions and corrections for each anti-pattern
- Organizational and operational considerations

## Common Anti-Patterns

### Anti-Pattern 1: Scattered Temporary Files

**Problem**: Creating temporary files in repository root or random locations.

**Bad Example:**

```bash
# Temporary files scattered everywhere
temp-report.md
validation-output.txt
/docs/temp-analysis.json
/apps/scratch-notes.txt
```

**Solution:**

```bash
# Organized in designated directories
generated-reports/docs__a1b2c3__2025-12-14--20-45__audit.md
local-temp/scratch-notes.txt
local-temp/analysis.json
```

**Rationale:**

- Repository clutter makes navigation hard
- Can't easily find or clean temporary files
- Risk of accidentally committing temporary data
- Designated directories are gitignored

### Anti-Pattern 2: Using Placeholder UUID and Timestamps

**Problem**: Using hardcoded placeholder values instead of generating real UUIDs.

**Bad Example:**

```bash
# Placeholder values (DO NOT DO THIS)
UUID="abc123"
TIMESTAMP="2025-12-14--00-00"
REPORT="generated-reports/docs__${UUID}__${TIMESTAMP}__audit.md"
```

**Solution:**

```bash
# Generate real values
UUID=$(uuidgen | tr '[:upper:]' '[:lower:]' | head -c 6)
TIMESTAMP=$(TZ='Asia/Jakarta' date +"%Y-%m-%d--%H-%M")
REPORT="generated-reports/docs__${UUID}__${TIMESTAMP}__audit.md"
```

**Rationale:**

- Placeholder timestamps defeat audit trail purpose
- Same UUID causes file collisions in parallel execution
- Can't sort chronologically with fake timestamps
- Debugging requires real creation times

### Anti-Pattern 3: Buffering Reports in Memory

**Problem**: Collecting findings in memory and writing report only at the end.

**Bad Example:**

```bash
# Buffer findings (DO NOT DO THIS)
findings=""
for file in $FILES; do
  result=$(validate "$file")
  findings+="$result\n"
done

# Write once at end (lost if context compacted!)
echo "$findings" > "$REPORT"
```

**Solution:**

```bash
# Write progressively
echo "# Audit Report" > "$REPORT"
for file in $FILES; do
  result=$(validate "$file")
  echo "## $file" >> "$REPORT"
  echo "Result: $result" >> "$REPORT"
done
```

**Rationale:**

- Findings lost during context compaction
- No progress visibility during long audits
- Can't debug incomplete runs
- Progressive writing ensures persistence

### Anti-Pattern 4: Missing Write or Bash Tools

**Problem**: Checker agent lacks required tools for report generation.

**Bad Example:**

```yaml
---
name: docs-checker
description: Validates documentation
tools: [Read, Glob, Grep] # MISSING Write and Bash!
---
```

**Solution:**

```yaml
---
name: docs-checker
description: Validates documentation
tools: [Read, Glob, Grep, Write, Bash]
---
```

**Rationale:**

- Write tool creates report files
- Bash tool generates UTC+7 timestamps
- Mandatory for all checker agents
- Consistent tool permissions across agents

### Anti-Pattern 5: Global Execution Tracking

**Problem**: Using single global tracking file for all workflows.

**Bad Example:**

```bash
# Global tracking file (causes race conditions)
CHAIN_FILE="generated-reports/.execution-chain"
# All workflows share same file!
```

**Solution:**

```bash
# Scope-based tracking files
SCOPE="${EXECUTION_SCOPE:-docs}"
CHAIN_FILE="generated-reports/.execution-chain-${SCOPE}"
```

**Rationale:**

- Concurrent workflows overwrite each other's data
- Parent tracking breaks across scopes
- Race conditions in parallel execution
- Scope isolation prevents contamination

### Anti-Pattern 6: Mismatched Audit and Fix Reports

**Problem**: Fixer uses different UUID or timestamp than source audit.

**Bad Example:**

```bash
# Audit report
AUDIT="generated-reports/docs__a1b2c3__2025-12-14--20-45__audit.md"

# Fix report with NEW UUID and timestamp (DO NOT DO THIS)
FIX="generated-reports/docs__d4e5f6__2025-12-14--21-00__fix.md"
```

**Solution:**

```bash
# Extract UUID and timestamp from audit filename
BASENAME=$(basename "$AUDIT" .md)
UUID=$(echo "$BASENAME" | awk -F'__' '{print $2}')
TIMESTAMP=$(echo "$BASENAME" | awk -F'__' '{print $3}')

# Fix report uses SAME UUID and timestamp
FIX="generated-reports/docs__${UUID}__${TIMESTAMP}__fix.md"
```

**Rationale:**

- Can't match fix report to source audit
- Breaks audit trail
- Complicates debugging
- Same UUID+timestamp enables exact pairing

### Anti-Pattern 7: Vague Acceptance Criteria

**Problem**: Writing ambiguous, non-testable acceptance criteria.

**Bad Example:**

```markdown
The system should work well and be fast.
Users should have a good experience.
```

**Solution:**

```gherkin
Scenario: User views dashboard
  Given a logged-in user
  When the user navigates to dashboard
  Then the page loads in under 2 seconds
  And all widgets display current data
```

**Rationale:**

- Vague criteria can't be tested
- No clear definition of "done"
- Can't automate validation
- Gherkin provides executable specifications

### Anti-Pattern 8: Never Cleaning Temporary Files

**Problem**: Accumulating thousands of old temporary files.

**Bad Example:**

```bash
# Never clean up
ls generated-reports/ | wc -l
# Output: 5,847 files (most months old!)
```

**Solution:**

```bash
# Periodic cleanup
find generated-reports/ -name "*.md" -mtime +30 -exec mv {} archive/ \;
find local-temp/ -mtime +7 -delete
```

**Rationale:**

- Directory bloat slows file system
- Hard to find recent reports
- Wastes disk space
- Regular cleanup maintains hygiene

### Anti-Pattern 9: Conversation-Only Output

**Problem**: Checker outputs findings in conversation without writing report file.

**Bad Example:**

```markdown
## Agent: docs-checker

Validation complete! Found 15 issues:

1. Missing alt text in image
2. Broken link to /docs/guide
   ...
   (No file written - findings lost during context compaction!)
```

**Solution:**

```bash
# Write findings to report file
REPORT="generated-reports/docs__${UUID}__${TIMESTAMP}__audit.md"
echo "# Validation Report" > "$REPORT"
echo "## Issues Found" >> "$REPORT"
echo "1. Missing alt text in image" >> "$REPORT"
# ... continue writing to file
```

**Rationale:**

- Conversation findings lost during compaction
- No audit trail
- Can't pass to fixer agents
- Report files persist regardless of context

### Anti-Pattern 10: Undocumented Long-Lived Temporary Files

**Problem**: Mysterious temporary files with no explanation.

**Bad Example:**

```bash
# What are these files?
local-temp/cache-v3.bin
local-temp/data-final-2025.json
local-temp/temp-backup-v2.tar.gz
```

**Solution:**

```bash
# local-temp/cache/README.md
# API Response Cache
#
# Contains cached API responses for development.
# Regenerated if older than 1 hour.
# Safe to delete - recreated as needed.
```

**Rationale:**

- Purpose unclear without documentation
- New team members don't know if safe to delete
- Retention policies unknown
- Documentation prevents confusion

## Summary of Anti-Patterns

| Anti-Pattern                  | Problem                | Solution                           |
| ----------------------------- | ---------------------- | ---------------------------------- |
| **Scattered Temporary Files** | Repository clutter     | Use designated directories         |
| **Placeholder UUIDs**         | Defeats audit trail    | Generate real UUIDs and timestamps |
| **Buffering Reports**         | Lost during compaction | Write progressively                |
| **Missing Tools**             | Can't generate reports | Add Write and Bash tools           |
| **Global Tracking**           | Race conditions        | Scope-based tracking               |
| **Mismatched Reports**        | Breaks audit trail     | Use same UUID and timestamp        |
| **Vague Criteria**            | Not testable           | Use Gherkin format                 |
| **Never Cleaning Up**         | Directory bloat        | Periodic cleanup                   |
| **Conversation-Only Output**  | Lost during compaction | Write report files                 |
| **Undocumented Temp Files**   | Purpose unclear        | Add README documentation           |

## Related Documentation

- [Temporary Files Convention](./temporary-files.md) - Complete temporary file standards
- [Acceptance Criteria Convention](./acceptance-criteria.md) - Gherkin acceptance criteria guide
- [Best Practices](./best-practices.md) - Recommended patterns
- [Explicit Over Implicit Principle](../../principles/software-engineering/explicit-over-implicit.md) - Why clear organization matters

## Conclusion

Avoiding these anti-patterns ensures:

- Organized temporary file structure
- Traceable audit trails
- Persistent report generation
- Testable acceptance criteria
- Concurrent execution support
- Clean workspace hygiene
- Clear documentation
- Reliable infrastructure

When managing infrastructure, ask: **Am I adding clarity or clutter?** If clutter, refactor to follow infrastructure development best practices.

## Principles Applied

- **Explicit Over Implicit**: Clear file locations, documented purposes
- **Automation Over Manual**: Progressive writing, automated tracking
- **Simplicity Over Complexity**: Designated directories, simple naming

Commit message:

refactor(governance): complete repository rules validation with zero findings
Executed repository-wide governance validation in OCD mode through 4
iterations, achieving zero findings across all criticality levels.

Iteration 1 - Agent Duplication Cleanup:
- Remove Workflow Integration boilerplate from 14 checker agents (~140 lines)
- Remove Tool Usage sections from all 45 agents (~360-540 lines)
- Simplify verbose skill references to concise format (19 agents)
- Add Vision Supported section to deliberate-problem-solving principle

Iteration 2 - Traceability Fixes:
- Add Principles Implemented section to software-design-reference convention
- Add Conventions Implemented section to skill-context-architecture practice

Iteration 3 - Content & Reference Cleanup:
- Remove time estimates from tutorial/general.md convention (5 instances)
- Move template skill (repo-multi-file-template) to docs/reference/templates/
- Fix broken principle references in 11 prog-lang docs
  (remove security-first, quality-first, measure-first-optimize-later)

Iteration 4 - Final Cleanup:
- Remove 2 remaining broken principle references from platform-web docs
- Add traceability sections to 12 companion documents
  (best-practices.md and anti-patterns.md in governance/development/)

Impact:
- 122 files changed
- 332 insertions, 1378 deletions
- Net reduction: 1046 lines
- Repository governance now fully compliant with zero validation findings

Validation: repo-governance-checker (4 iterations)

governance/development/infra/anti-patterns.md, after:

# Anti-Patterns in Infrastructure Development

> **Companion Document**: For positive guidance on what to do, see [Best Practices](./best-practices.md)

## Overview

## Principles Respected

This companion document respects:

- **[Simplicity Over Complexity](../../principles/general/simplicity-over-complexity.md)**: Provides practical examples of simple vs complex approaches
- **[Explicit Over Implicit](../../principles/software-engineering/explicit-over-implicit.md)**: Makes patterns and anti-patterns explicit through clear examples

## Conventions Implemented/Respected

This companion document supports the conventions in this directory by providing practical examples and guidance.

Understanding common mistakes in development infrastructure management helps teams build more organized, traceable, and maintainable systems. These anti-patterns cause clutter, traceability issues, and operational problems.

## Purpose

## Principles Respected

This companion document respects:

- **[Simplicity Over Complexity](../../principles/general/simplicity-over-complexity.md)**: Provides practical examples of simple vs complex approaches
- **[Explicit Over Implicit](../../principles/software-engineering/explicit-over-implicit.md)**: Makes patterns and anti-patterns explicit through clear examples

## Conventions Implemented/Respected

This companion document supports the conventions in this directory by providing practical examples and guidance.

This document provides:

- Common anti-patterns in infrastructure development
- Examples of problematic implementations
- Solutions and corrections for each anti-pattern
- Organizational and operational considerations

## Common Anti-Patterns

### Anti-Pattern 1: Scattered Temporary Files

**Problem**: Creating temporary files in repository root or random locations.

**Bad Example:**

```bash
# Temporary files scattered everywhere
temp-report.md
validation-output.txt
/docs/temp-analysis.json
/apps/scratch-notes.txt
```

**Solution:**

```bash
# Organized in designated directories
generated-reports/docs__a1b2c3__2025-12-14--20-45__audit.md
local-temp/scratch-notes.txt
local-temp/analysis.json
```

**Rationale:**

- Repository clutter makes navigation hard
- Can't easily find or clean temporary files
- Risk of accidentally committing temporary data
- Designated directories are gitignored

### Anti-Pattern 2: Using Placeholder UUID and Timestamps

**Problem**: Using hardcoded placeholder values instead of generating real UUIDs.

**Bad Example:**

```bash
# Placeholder values (DO NOT DO THIS)
UUID="abc123"
TIMESTAMP="2025-12-14--00-00"
REPORT="generated-reports/docs__${UUID}__${TIMESTAMP}__audit.md"
```

**Solution:**

```bash
# Generate real values
UUID=$(uuidgen | tr '[:upper:]' '[:lower:]' | head -c 6)
TIMESTAMP=$(TZ='Asia/Jakarta' date +"%Y-%m-%d--%H-%M")
REPORT="generated-reports/docs__${UUID}__${TIMESTAMP}__audit.md"
```

**Rationale:**

- Placeholder timestamps defeat audit trail purpose
- Same UUID causes file collisions in parallel execution
- Can't sort chronologically with fake timestamps
- Debugging requires real creation times

### Anti-Pattern 3: Buffering Reports in Memory

**Problem**: Collecting findings in memory and writing report only at the end.

**Bad Example:**

```bash
# Buffer findings (DO NOT DO THIS)
findings=""
for file in $FILES; do
  result=$(validate "$file")
  findings+="$result\n"
done

# Write once at end (lost if context compacted!)
echo "$findings" > "$REPORT"
```

**Solution:**

```bash
# Write progressively
echo "# Audit Report" > "$REPORT"
for file in $FILES; do
  result=$(validate "$file")
  echo "## $file" >> "$REPORT"
  echo "Result: $result" >> "$REPORT"
done
```

**Rationale:**

- Findings lost during context compaction
- No progress visibility during long audits
- Can't debug incomplete runs
- Progressive writing ensures persistence

### Anti-Pattern 4: Missing Write or Bash Tools

**Problem**: Checker agent lacks required tools for report generation.

**Bad Example:**

```yaml
---
name: docs-checker
description: Validates documentation
tools: [Read, Glob, Grep] # MISSING Write and Bash!
---
```

**Solution:**

```yaml
---
name: docs-checker
description: Validates documentation
tools: [Read, Glob, Grep, Write, Bash]
---
```

**Rationale:**

- Write tool creates report files
- Bash tool generates UTC+7 timestamps
- Mandatory for all checker agents
- Consistent tool permissions across agents

### Anti-Pattern 5: Global Execution Tracking

**Problem**: Using single global tracking file for all workflows.

**Bad Example:**

```bash
# Global tracking file (causes race conditions)
CHAIN_FILE="generated-reports/.execution-chain"
# All workflows share same file!
```

**Solution:**

```bash
# Scope-based tracking files
SCOPE="${EXECUTION_SCOPE:-docs}"
CHAIN_FILE="generated-reports/.execution-chain-${SCOPE}"
```

**Rationale:**

- Concurrent workflows overwrite each other's data
- Parent tracking breaks across scopes
- Race conditions in parallel execution
- Scope isolation prevents contamination

### Anti-Pattern 6: Mismatched Audit and Fix Reports

**Problem**: Fixer uses different UUID or timestamp than source audit.

**Bad Example:**

```bash
# Audit report
AUDIT="generated-reports/docs__a1b2c3__2025-12-14--20-45__audit.md"

# Fix report with NEW UUID and timestamp (DO NOT DO THIS)
FIX="generated-reports/docs__d4e5f6__2025-12-14--21-00__fix.md"
```

**Solution:**

```bash
# Extract UUID and timestamp from audit filename
BASENAME=$(basename "$AUDIT" .md)
UUID=$(echo "$BASENAME" | awk -F'__' '{print $2}')
TIMESTAMP=$(echo "$BASENAME" | awk -F'__' '{print $3}')

# Fix report uses SAME UUID and timestamp
FIX="generated-reports/docs__${UUID}__${TIMESTAMP}__fix.md"
```

**Rationale:**

- Can't match fix report to source audit
- Breaks audit trail
- Complicates debugging
- Same UUID+timestamp enables exact pairing

### Anti-Pattern 7: Vague Acceptance Criteria

**Problem**: Writing ambiguous, non-testable acceptance criteria.

**Bad Example:**

```markdown
The system should work well and be fast.
Users should have a good experience.
```

**Solution:**

```gherkin
Scenario: User views dashboard
  Given a logged-in user
  When the user navigates to dashboard
  Then the page loads in under 2 seconds
  And all widgets display current data
```

**Rationale:**

- Vague criteria can't be tested
- No clear definition of "done"
- Can't automate validation
- Gherkin provides executable specifications

### Anti-Pattern 8: Never Cleaning Temporary Files

**Problem**: Accumulating thousands of old temporary files.

**Bad Example:**

```bash
# Never clean up
ls generated-reports/ | wc -l
# Output: 5,847 files (most months old!)
```

**Solution:**

```bash
# Periodic cleanup
find generated-reports/ -name "*.md" -mtime +30 -exec mv {} archive/ \;
find local-temp/ -mtime +7 -delete
```

**Rationale:**

- Directory bloat slows file system
- Hard to find recent reports
- Wastes disk space
- Regular cleanup maintains hygiene

### Anti-Pattern 9: Conversation-Only Output

**Problem**: Checker outputs findings in conversation without writing report file.

**Bad Example:**

```markdown
## Agent: docs-checker

Validation complete! Found 15 issues:

1. Missing alt text in image
2. Broken link to /docs/guide
   ...
   (No file written - findings lost during context compaction!)
```

**Solution:**

```bash
# Write findings to report file
REPORT="generated-reports/docs__${UUID}__${TIMESTAMP}__audit.md"
echo "# Validation Report" > "$REPORT"
echo "## Issues Found" >> "$REPORT"
echo "1. Missing alt text in image" >> "$REPORT"
# ... continue writing to file
```

**Rationale:**

- Conversation findings lost during compaction
- No audit trail
- Can't pass to fixer agents
- Report files persist regardless of context

### Anti-Pattern 10: Undocumented Long-Lived Temporary Files

**Problem**: Mysterious temporary files with no explanation.

**Bad Example:**

```bash
# What are these files?
local-temp/cache-v3.bin
local-temp/data-final-2025.json
local-temp/temp-backup-v2.tar.gz
```

**Solution:**

```bash
# local-temp/cache/README.md
# API Response Cache
#
# Contains cached API responses for development.
# Regenerated if older than 1 hour.
# Safe to delete - recreated as needed.
```

**Rationale:**

- Purpose unclear without documentation
- New team members don't know if safe to delete
- Retention policies unknown
- Documentation prevents confusion

## Summary of Anti-Patterns

| Anti-Pattern                  | Problem                | Solution                           |
| ----------------------------- | ---------------------- | ---------------------------------- |
| **Scattered Temporary Files** | Repository clutter     | Use designated directories         |
| **Placeholder UUIDs**         | Defeats audit trail    | Generate real UUIDs and timestamps |
| **Buffering Reports**         | Lost during compaction | Write progressively                |
| **Missing Tools**             | Can't generate reports | Add Write and Bash tools           |
| **Global Tracking**           | Race conditions        | Scope-based tracking               |
| **Mismatched Reports**        | Breaks audit trail     | Use same UUID and timestamp        |
| **Vague Criteria**            | Not testable           | Use Gherkin format                 |
| **Never Cleaning Up**         | Directory bloat        | Periodic cleanup                   |
| **Conversation-Only Output**  | Lost during compaction | Write report files                 |
| **Undocumented Temp Files**   | Purpose unclear        | Add README documentation           |

## Related Documentation

- [Temporary Files Convention](./temporary-files.md) - Complete temporary file standards
- [Acceptance Criteria Convention](./acceptance-criteria.md) - Gherkin acceptance criteria guide
- [Best Practices](./best-practices.md) - Recommended patterns
- [Explicit Over Implicit Principle](../../principles/software-engineering/explicit-over-implicit.md) - Why clear organization matters

## Conclusion

Avoiding these anti-patterns ensures:

- Organized temporary file structure
- Traceable audit trails
- Persistent report generation
- Testable acceptance criteria
- Concurrent execution support
- Clean workspace hygiene
- Clear documentation
- Reliable infrastructure

When managing infrastructure, ask: **Am I adding clarity or clutter?** If clutter, refactor to follow infrastructure development best practices.

## Principles Applied

- **Explicit Over Implicit**: Clear file locations, documented purposes
- **Automation Over Manual**: Progressive writing, automated tracking
- **Simplicity Over Complexity**: Designated directories, simple naming
