apps/ayokoding-web/content/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/rust/how-to/_index.md, before:

---
title: How-To Guides
date: 2025-12-19T00:00:00+07:00
draft: false
description: Problem-solving guides for Rust development - cookbook recipes and practical how-to guides
weight: 200000
type: docs
---

- [How-To Guides Overview](overview)
- [Rust Cookbook](cookbook)
- [Working with Ownership](working-with-ownership)
- [Error Handling Strategies](error-handling-strategies)
- [Manage Dependencies with Cargo](manage-dependencies-cargo)
- [Write Effective Tests](write-effective-tests)
- [Work with Collections](work-with-collections)
- [Implement Traits](implement-traits)
- [Concurrent Programming](concurrent-programming)
- [Async/Await Patterns](async-await-patterns)
- [Build CLI Applications](build-cli-applications)
- [REST API Development](rest-api-development)
- [Database Integration](database-integration)
- [Macro Development](macro-development)
- [FFI Interoperability](ffi-interop)
- [Performance Optimization](performance-optimization)
- [WebAssembly Development](webassembly-development)
- [Embedded Rust Development](embedded-rust)
- [Advanced Type Patterns](advanced-type-patterns)
- [Using Unsafe Rust Safely](unsafe-rust-safely)

Commit message:

feat(ayokoding): add 5 Rust how-to guides and expand cookbook to 5,010 lines
Add comprehensive Rust how-to guides:
- Async programming patterns (Tokio, async/await, futures, error handling)
- Code documentation with rustdoc (doc comments, examples, testing, publishing)
- Configuration management (config crates, environment variables, TOML/YAML)
- Debug and logging effectively (dbg! macro, log/env_logger, tracing framework)
- Testing patterns (unit tests, integration tests, property-based testing, benchmarking)

Expand cookbook from 2,243 to 5,010 lines (+2,760 lines, +30 recipes).
Remove forbidden tags field from cookbook frontmatter per Hugo conventions.
Fix weight values from 1000XXX to 10XX format per level-based weight system:
- debug-and-logging: 1000220 → 1020
- configuration-management: 1000230 → 1030
- code-documentation: 1000240 → 1040
- async-programming-patterns: 1000250 → 1050
- testing-patterns: 1000260 → 1060

All guides follow mandatory how-to pattern and comply with Hugo conventions.

Rust content now meets exceptional standard: 23 guides (18 → 23), 5,010-line cookbook.

apps/ayokoding-web/content/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/rust/how-to/_index.md, after:

---
title: How-To Guides
date: 2025-12-19T00:00:00+07:00
draft: false
description: Problem-solving guides for Rust development - cookbook recipes and practical how-to guides
weight: 200000
type: docs
---

- [How to Debug and Log Effectively](debug-and-logging)
- [How to Manage Configuration](configuration-management)
- [How to Document Code Effectively](code-documentation)
- [How to Use Async Programming Patterns](async-programming-patterns)
- [How to Implement Testing Strategies](testing-patterns)
- [How-To Guides Overview](overview)
- [Rust Cookbook](cookbook)
- [Working with Ownership](working-with-ownership)
- [Error Handling Strategies](error-handling-strategies)
- [Manage Dependencies with Cargo](manage-dependencies-cargo)
- [Write Effective Tests](write-effective-tests)
- [Work with Collections](work-with-collections)
- [Implement Traits](implement-traits)
- [Concurrent Programming](concurrent-programming)
- [Async/Await Patterns](async-await-patterns)
- [Build CLI Applications](build-cli-applications)
- [REST API Development](rest-api-development)
- [Database Integration](database-integration)
- [Macro Development](macro-development)
- [FFI Interoperability](ffi-interop)
- [Performance Optimization](performance-optimization)
- [WebAssembly Development](webassembly-development)
- [Embedded Rust Development](embedded-rust)
- [Advanced Type Patterns](advanced-type-patterns)
- [Using Unsafe Rust Safely](unsafe-rust-safely)
