governance/development/quality/best-practices.md, before:

# Best Practices for Quality Development

> **Companion Document**: For common mistakes to avoid, see [Anti-Patterns](./anti-patterns.md)

## Overview

This document outlines best practices for maintaining code quality, validation methodologies, and content preservation. Following these practices ensures high-quality, consistent, and well-validated codebases.

## Purpose

Provide actionable guidance for:

- Automated quality enforcement
- Repository validation
- Criticality and confidence assessment
- Content preservation during refactoring
- Quality gate implementation

## Best Practices

### Practice 1: Automate Quality Checks in Git Hooks

**Principle**: Use pre-commit and pre-push hooks to enforce quality automatically.

**Good Example:**

```json
// package.json
{
  "lint-staged": {
    "*.{ts,tsx,js,jsx}": ["prettier --write", "eslint --fix"],
    "*.md": ["prettier --write", "markdownlint-cli2 --fix"]
  }
}
```

**Bad Example:**

```bash
# Manual quality checks (DO NOT DO THIS)
# Developer manually runs:
prettier --write .
eslint --fix .
# Often forgotten before commit!
```

**Rationale:**

- Consistent enforcement
- No forgotten checks
- Prevents bad code from entering repo
- Faster feedback loop

### Practice 2: Use Criticality Levels for Prioritization

**Principle**: Categorize findings by importance: CRITICAL/HIGH/MEDIUM/LOW.

**Good Example:**

```markdown
## CRITICAL Issues (2)

- Broken authentication endpoint (blocks users)
- SQL injection vulnerability (security risk)

## HIGH Issues (5)

- Missing alt text (accessibility)
- Incorrect dates (data quality)

## MEDIUM Issues (8)

- Style inconsistencies (minor quality)

## LOW Issues (12)

- Optional improvements (nice-to-have)
```

**Bad Example:**

```markdown
## Issues (27)

- Broken authentication endpoint
- Missing alt text
- Optional code cleanup
  (All treated equally - no prioritization!)
```

**Rationale:**

- Clear fix priorities
- Critical issues addressed first
- Efficient resource allocation
- Aligns with business impact

### Practice 3: Assess Fixer Confidence Before Applying

**Principle**: Use three-level confidence: HIGH/MEDIUM/FALSE_POSITIVE.

**Good Example:**

```bash
# Re-validate before fixing
if validate_finding "$finding"; then
  if is_high_confidence "$finding"; then
    apply_fix "$finding"  # AUTO-FIX
  elif is_medium_confidence "$finding"; then
    flag_for_review "$finding"  # MANUAL
  fi
else
  report_false_positive "$finding"  # SKIP
fi
```

**Bad Example:**

```bash
# Apply all fixes without assessment (DO NOT DO THIS)
for finding in $FINDINGS; do
  apply_fix "$finding"  # NO CONFIDENCE CHECK!
done
```

**Rationale:**

- Safe automated fixes
- Prevents incorrect changes
- Requires human judgment for uncertainty
- Systematic quality control

### Practice 4: Preserve Content During Refactoring

**Principle**: When condensing or restructuring files, preserve all knowledge.

**Good Example:**

```markdown
## Process

1. Read all source files thoroughly
2. Identify unique knowledge in each
3. Create target structure
4. Migrate content systematically
5. Cross-reference and verify nothing lost
6. Archive originals for safety
```

**Bad Example:**

```bash
# Delete files without preserving content (DO NOT DO THIS)
rm old-doc-1.md old-doc-2.md old-doc-3.md
# Knowledge lost forever!
```

**Rationale:**

- No knowledge loss
- Maintains documentation value
- Enables future reference
- Respects Documentation First principle

### Practice 5: Run Affected Tests Only in Pre-Push

**Principle**: Use Nx affected tests for fast feedback.

**Good Example:**

```bash
# .husky/pre-push
nx affected:test --base=origin/main
# Only tests affected by changes
```

**Bad Example:**

```bash
# .husky/pre-push
nx test  # Runs ALL tests (slow!)
```

**Rationale:**

- Fast feedback (seconds vs minutes)
- Runs only relevant tests
- Reduces friction for developers
- Maintains quality gate

### Practice 6: Use Standardized Validation Patterns

**Principle**: Follow repository validation methodology for consistency.

**Good Example:**

```bash
# Standardized validation pattern
validate_frontmatter() {
  local file=$1
  # Check required fields
  # Validate date format
  # Verify allowed values
  # Report findings with line numbers
}
```

**Bad Example:**

```bash
# Ad-hoc validation (DO NOT DO THIS)
validate() {
  grep something $file  # Unclear what's checked
}
```

**Rationale:**

- Consistent validation across agents
- Clear, documented patterns
- Easier to maintain and extend
- Reduces duplication

### Practice 7: Combine Criticality and Confidence for Priority

**Principle**: Use priority matrix (P0-P4) for fix execution order.

**Good Example:**

```bash
# P0 (Blocker): CRITICAL + HIGH confidence
# Fix immediately, block if fails

# P1 (Urgent): HIGH + HIGH OR CRITICAL + MEDIUM
# Fix with high priority

# P2 (Normal): MEDIUM + HIGH OR HIGH + MEDIUM
# Fix when approved

# P3-P4 (Low): All LOW combinations
# Suggestions only
```

**Bad Example:**

```bash
# Random fix order (DO NOT DO THIS)
for finding in $FINDINGS; do
  apply_fix "$finding"  # No priority!
done
```

**Rationale:**

- Blockers fixed first
- Efficient resource use
- Clear escalation path
- Business impact aligned

### Practice 8: Enable Lint-Staged for Incremental Quality

**Principle**: Format and lint only staged files in pre-commit.

**Good Example:**

```json
// package.json
{
  "lint-staged": {
    "*.md": ["prettier --write", "markdownlint-cli2 --fix"]
  }
}
```

**Bad Example:**

```bash
# Format entire repo on every commit (DO NOT DO THIS)
prettier --write .  # SLOW!
```

**Rationale:**

- Fast pre-commit hooks
- Only affects changed files
- Gradual quality improvement
- Developer-friendly

### Practice 9: Document Validation Rules and Rationale

**Principle**: Explain WHY each validation exists, not just WHAT it checks.

**Good Example:**

```markdown
## Validation: Alt Text Required

**Rule**: All images must have descriptive alt text.

**Rationale**:

- Screen readers need text descriptions
- WCAG AA compliance requirement
- Improves SEO
- Benefits users on slow connections

**Example**: `<img src="photo.jpg" alt="Team photo at conference" />`
```

**Bad Example:**

```markdown
## Validation: Alt text

Check alt text.
```

**Rationale:**

- Clear purpose and context
- Easier to maintain rules
- Enables informed decisions
- Educational for team

### Practice 10: Fail Build on Quality Violations in CI

**Principle**: Pre-push hooks block local push, CI blocks merge.

**Good Example:**

```yaml
# .github/workflows/ci.yml
- name: Lint
  run: npm run lint -- --max-warnings=0

- name: Test
  run: nx affected:test --base=origin/main
```

**Bad Example:**

```yaml
# CI that ignores quality (DO NOT DO THIS)
- name: Lint
  run: npm run lint || true # Always passes!
```

**Rationale:**

- Quality gate enforcement
- No bad code in main branch
- Team accountability
- Maintains codebase health

## Related Documentation

- [Code Quality Convention](./code.md) - Automated quality tools and git hooks
- [Criticality Levels Convention](./criticality-levels.md) - Issue categorization
- [Fixer Confidence Levels Convention](./fixer-confidence-levels.md) - Confidence assessment
- [Repository Validation Methodology](./repository-validation.md) - Validation patterns
- [Anti-Patterns](./anti-patterns.md) - Common mistakes to avoid

## Summary

Following these best practices ensures:

1. Automate quality checks in git hooks
2. Use criticality levels for prioritization
3. Assess fixer confidence before applying
4. Preserve content during refactoring
5. Run affected tests only in pre-push
6. Use standardized validation patterns
7. Combine criticality and confidence for priority
8. Enable lint-staged for incremental quality
9. Document validation rules and rationale
10. Fail build on quality violations in CI

Quality development following these practices is automated, systematic, and maintainable.

## Principles Applied

- **Automation Over Manual**: Git hooks, automated validation, CI enforcement
- **Documentation First**: Preserve content, document validation rules
- **Explicit Over Implicit**: Clear criticality levels, confidence assessment
- **Simplicity Over Complexity**: Incremental quality, affected tests only

Commit message:

refactor(governance): complete repository rules validation with zero findings
Executed repository-wide governance validation in OCD mode through 4
iterations, achieving zero findings across all criticality levels.

Iteration 1 - Agent Duplication Cleanup:
- Remove Workflow Integration boilerplate from 14 checker agents (~140 lines)
- Remove Tool Usage sections from all 45 agents (~360-540 lines)
- Simplify verbose skill references to concise format (19 agents)
- Add Vision Supported section to deliberate-problem-solving principle

Iteration 2 - Traceability Fixes:
- Add Principles Implemented section to software-design-reference convention
- Add Conventions Implemented section to skill-context-architecture practice

Iteration 3 - Content & Reference Cleanup:
- Remove time estimates from tutorial/general.md convention (5 instances)
- Move template skill (repo-multi-file-template) to docs/reference/templates/
- Fix broken principle references in 11 prog-lang docs
  (remove security-first, quality-first, measure-first-optimize-later)

Iteration 4 - Final Cleanup:
- Remove 2 remaining broken principle references from platform-web docs
- Add traceability sections to 12 companion documents
  (best-practices.md and anti-patterns.md in governance/development/)

Impact:
- 122 files changed
- 332 insertions, 1378 deletions
- Net reduction: 1046 lines
- Repository governance now fully compliant with zero validation findings

Validation: repo-governance-checker (4 iterations)

governance/development/quality/best-practices.md, after:

# Best Practices for Quality Development

> **Companion Document**: For common mistakes to avoid, see [Anti-Patterns](./anti-patterns.md)

## Overview

## Principles Respected

This companion document respects:

- **[Simplicity Over Complexity](../../principles/general/simplicity-over-complexity.md)**: Provides practical examples of simple vs complex approaches
- **[Explicit Over Implicit](../../principles/software-engineering/explicit-over-implicit.md)**: Makes patterns and anti-patterns explicit through clear examples

## Conventions Implemented/Respected

This companion document supports the conventions in this directory by providing practical examples and guidance.

This document outlines best practices for maintaining code quality, validation methodologies, and content preservation. Following these practices ensures high-quality, consistent, and well-validated codebases.

## Purpose

## Principles Respected

This companion document respects:

- **[Simplicity Over Complexity](../../principles/general/simplicity-over-complexity.md)**: Provides practical examples of simple vs complex approaches
- **[Explicit Over Implicit](../../principles/software-engineering/explicit-over-implicit.md)**: Makes patterns and anti-patterns explicit through clear examples

## Conventions Implemented/Respected

This companion document supports the conventions in this directory by providing practical examples and guidance.

Provide actionable guidance for:

- Automated quality enforcement
- Repository validation
- Criticality and confidence assessment
- Content preservation during refactoring
- Quality gate implementation

## Best Practices

### Practice 1: Automate Quality Checks in Git Hooks

**Principle**: Use pre-commit and pre-push hooks to enforce quality automatically.

**Good Example:**

```json
// package.json
{
  "lint-staged": {
    "*.{ts,tsx,js,jsx}": ["prettier --write", "eslint --fix"],
    "*.md": ["prettier --write", "markdownlint-cli2 --fix"]
  }
}
```

**Bad Example:**

```bash
# Manual quality checks (DO NOT DO THIS)
# Developer manually runs:
prettier --write .
eslint --fix .
# Often forgotten before commit!
```

**Rationale:**

- Consistent enforcement
- No forgotten checks
- Prevents bad code from entering repo
- Faster feedback loop

### Practice 2: Use Criticality Levels for Prioritization

**Principle**: Categorize findings by importance: CRITICAL/HIGH/MEDIUM/LOW.

**Good Example:**

```markdown
## CRITICAL Issues (2)

- Broken authentication endpoint (blocks users)
- SQL injection vulnerability (security risk)

## HIGH Issues (5)

- Missing alt text (accessibility)
- Incorrect dates (data quality)

## MEDIUM Issues (8)

- Style inconsistencies (minor quality)

## LOW Issues (12)

- Optional improvements (nice-to-have)
```

**Bad Example:**

```markdown
## Issues (27)

- Broken authentication endpoint
- Missing alt text
- Optional code cleanup
  (All treated equally - no prioritization!)
```

**Rationale:**

- Clear fix priorities
- Critical issues addressed first
- Efficient resource allocation
- Aligns with business impact

### Practice 3: Assess Fixer Confidence Before Applying

**Principle**: Use three-level confidence: HIGH/MEDIUM/FALSE_POSITIVE.

**Good Example:**

```bash
# Re-validate before fixing
if validate_finding "$finding"; then
  if is_high_confidence "$finding"; then
    apply_fix "$finding"  # AUTO-FIX
  elif is_medium_confidence "$finding"; then
    flag_for_review "$finding"  # MANUAL
  fi
else
  report_false_positive "$finding"  # SKIP
fi
```

**Bad Example:**

```bash
# Apply all fixes without assessment (DO NOT DO THIS)
for finding in $FINDINGS; do
  apply_fix "$finding"  # NO CONFIDENCE CHECK!
done
```

**Rationale:**

- Safe automated fixes
- Prevents incorrect changes
- Requires human judgment for uncertainty
- Systematic quality control

### Practice 4: Preserve Content During Refactoring

**Principle**: When condensing or restructuring files, preserve all knowledge.

**Good Example:**

```markdown
## Process

1. Read all source files thoroughly
2. Identify unique knowledge in each
3. Create target structure
4. Migrate content systematically
5. Cross-reference and verify nothing lost
6. Archive originals for safety
```

**Bad Example:**

```bash
# Delete files without preserving content (DO NOT DO THIS)
rm old-doc-1.md old-doc-2.md old-doc-3.md
# Knowledge lost forever!
```

**Rationale:**

- No knowledge loss
- Maintains documentation value
- Enables future reference
- Respects Documentation First principle

### Practice 5: Run Affected Tests Only in Pre-Push

**Principle**: Use Nx affected tests for fast feedback.

**Good Example:**

```bash
# .husky/pre-push
nx affected:test --base=origin/main
# Only tests affected by changes
```

**Bad Example:**

```bash
# .husky/pre-push
nx test  # Runs ALL tests (slow!)
```

**Rationale:**

- Fast feedback (seconds vs minutes)
- Runs only relevant tests
- Reduces friction for developers
- Maintains quality gate

### Practice 6: Use Standardized Validation Patterns

**Principle**: Follow repository validation methodology for consistency.

**Good Example:**

```bash
# Standardized validation pattern
validate_frontmatter() {
  local file=$1
  # Check required fields
  # Validate date format
  # Verify allowed values
  # Report findings with line numbers
}
```

**Bad Example:**

```bash
# Ad-hoc validation (DO NOT DO THIS)
validate() {
  grep something $file  # Unclear what's checked
}
```

**Rationale:**

- Consistent validation across agents
- Clear, documented patterns
- Easier to maintain and extend
- Reduces duplication

### Practice 7: Combine Criticality and Confidence for Priority

**Principle**: Use priority matrix (P0-P4) for fix execution order.

**Good Example:**

```bash
# P0 (Blocker): CRITICAL + HIGH confidence
# Fix immediately, block if fails

# P1 (Urgent): HIGH + HIGH OR CRITICAL + MEDIUM
# Fix with high priority

# P2 (Normal): MEDIUM + HIGH OR HIGH + MEDIUM
# Fix when approved

# P3-P4 (Low): All LOW combinations
# Suggestions only
```

**Bad Example:**

```bash
# Random fix order (DO NOT DO THIS)
for finding in $FINDINGS; do
  apply_fix "$finding"  # No priority!
done
```

**Rationale:**

- Blockers fixed first
- Efficient resource use
- Clear escalation path
- Business impact aligned

### Practice 8: Enable Lint-Staged for Incremental Quality

**Principle**: Format and lint only staged files in pre-commit.

**Good Example:**

```json
// package.json
{
  "lint-staged": {
    "*.md": ["prettier --write", "markdownlint-cli2 --fix"]
  }
}
```

**Bad Example:**

```bash
# Format entire repo on every commit (DO NOT DO THIS)
prettier --write .  # SLOW!
```

**Rationale:**

- Fast pre-commit hooks
- Only affects changed files
- Gradual quality improvement
- Developer-friendly

### Practice 9: Document Validation Rules and Rationale

**Principle**: Explain WHY each validation exists, not just WHAT it checks.

**Good Example:**

```markdown
## Validation: Alt Text Required

**Rule**: All images must have descriptive alt text.

**Rationale**:

- Screen readers need text descriptions
- WCAG AA compliance requirement
- Improves SEO
- Benefits users on slow connections

**Example**: `<img src="photo.jpg" alt="Team photo at conference" />`
```

**Bad Example:**

```markdown
## Validation: Alt text

Check alt text.
```

**Rationale:**

- Clear purpose and context
- Easier to maintain rules
- Enables informed decisions
- Educational for team

### Practice 10: Fail Build on Quality Violations in CI

**Principle**: Pre-push hooks block local push, CI blocks merge.

**Good Example:**

```yaml
# .github/workflows/ci.yml
- name: Lint
  run: npm run lint -- --max-warnings=0

- name: Test
  run: nx affected:test --base=origin/main
```

**Bad Example:**

```yaml
# CI that ignores quality (DO NOT DO THIS)
- name: Lint
  run: npm run lint || true # Always passes!
```

**Rationale:**

- Quality gate enforcement
- No bad code in main branch
- Team accountability
- Maintains codebase health

## Related Documentation

- [Code Quality Convention](./code.md) - Automated quality tools and git hooks
- [Criticality Levels Convention](./criticality-levels.md) - Issue categorization
- [Fixer Confidence Levels Convention](./fixer-confidence-levels.md) - Confidence assessment
- [Repository Validation Methodology](./repository-validation.md) - Validation patterns
- [Anti-Patterns](./anti-patterns.md) - Common mistakes to avoid

## Summary

Following these best practices ensures:

1. Automate quality checks in git hooks
2. Use criticality levels for prioritization
3. Assess fixer confidence before applying
4. Preserve content during refactoring
5. Run affected tests only in pre-push
6. Use standardized validation patterns
7. Combine criticality and confidence for priority
8. Enable lint-staged for incremental quality
9. Document validation rules and rationale
10. Fail build on quality violations in CI

Quality development following these practices is automated, systematic, and maintainable.

## Principles Applied

- **Automation Over Manual**: Git hooks, automated validation, CI enforcement
- **Documentation First**: Preserve content, document validation rules
- **Explicit Over Implicit**: Clear criticality levels, confidence assessment
- **Simplicity Over Complexity**: Incremental quality, affected tests only
