governance/development/quality/code.md, before:

---
title: Code Quality Convention
tags:
  - development
  - code-quality
  - prettier
  - husky
  - lint-staged
  - git-hooks
  - automation
category: explanation
subcategory: development
---

# Code Quality Convention

This document explains the automated code quality tools and git hooks used in this repository to maintain consistent code formatting and commit message standards.

## Principles Implemented/Respected

This practice respects the following core principles:

- **[Automation Over Manual](../../principles/software-engineering/automation-over-manual.md)**: Git hooks (Husky) automatically run Prettier and Commitlint before commits. Humans write code, machines enforce formatting and standards. No manual formatting or message validation required.

- **[Simplicity Over Complexity](../../principles/general/simplicity-over-complexity.md)**: Prettier uses default settings - no custom configuration file. Commitlint uses standard Conventional Commits spec. Minimal tooling configuration reduces complexity.

## Conventions Implemented/Respected

**REQUIRED SECTION**: All development practice documents MUST include this section to ensure traceability from practices to documentation standards.

This practice implements/respects the following conventions:

- **[Commit Message Convention](../workflow/commit-messages.md)**: Git hooks enforce Conventional Commits format through Commitlint, validating commit message structure before commits are created.

- **[Indentation Convention](../../conventions/formatting/indentation.md)**: Prettier enforces consistent indentation (2 spaces for YAML frontmatter) across all formatted file types.

- **[File Naming Convention](../../conventions/structure/file-naming.md)**: Pre-commit hook formats all files matching the repository's file naming patterns without altering the naming structure.

## Overview

This project enforces code quality through automated tools that run during the development workflow:

- **Prettier** - Automatic code formatting
- **Husky** - Git hooks management
- **Lint-staged** - Run tools on staged files only
- **Commitlint** - Commit message validation (see [Commit Message Convention](../workflow/commit-messages.md))

These tools work together to ensure code consistency and quality without manual intervention.

## Prettier - Code Formatting

**Purpose**: Automatically format code to maintain consistent style across the codebase.

**Supported File Types**:

- JavaScript/TypeScript: `*.{js,jsx,ts,tsx,mjs,cjs}`
- JSON: `*.json`
- Markdown: `*.md` (excluding Hugo archetypes)
- YAML: `*.{yml,yaml}`
- CSS/SCSS: `*.{css,scss}`

**Note**: Hugo archetype template files (`apps/ayokoding-web/archetypes/**/*.md`) are excluded from Prettier formatting as they contain Go template syntax.

**When It Runs**: Automatically on staged files before each commit via the pre-commit hook.

**Configuration**: Prettier uses default settings (no custom configuration file). This ensures maximum compatibility and reduces configuration overhead.

**Manual Formatting**: You can manually format files with:

```bash
npx prettier --write [file-path]
```

## Husky - Git Hooks

**Purpose**: Manage git hooks to run automated checks at specific points in the git workflow.

**Hooks Configured**:

- `.husky/pre-commit` - Runs before commit is created
- `.husky/commit-msg` - Runs after commit message is entered
- `.husky/pre-push` - Runs before pushing to remote

**Why Husky**: Ensures all developers have the same git hooks configured automatically after running `npm install`. Hooks are stored in the repository (`.husky/` directory) for version control.

## Lint-staged

**Purpose**: Run linters and formatters only on staged files (not the entire codebase).

**Configuration** (in `package.json`):

```json
{
  "lint-staged": {
    "*.{js,jsx,ts,tsx,mjs,cjs}": "prettier --write",
    "*.json": "prettier --write",
    "apps/ayokoding-web/archetypes/**/*.md": "echo 'Skipping Hugo archetype'",
    "*.md": "prettier --write",
    "*.{yml,yaml}": "prettier --write",
    "*.{css,scss}": "prettier --write"
  }
}
```

**How It Works**:

1. Identifies files staged for commit (`git add`)
2. Runs Prettier on matching file types
3. Automatically stages formatted files
4. Allows commit to proceed if successful

**Benefits**:

- Faster than running tools on entire codebase
- Only formats files you're committing
- Prevents incorrectly formatted code from being committed

## Git Hook Workflow

### Pre-commit Hook

**Location**: `.husky/pre-commit`

**Execution Order**:

1. You run `git commit`
2. Pre-commit hook triggers
3. **Configuration Validation** (if `.claude/` or `.opencode/` staged):
   - Validates `.claude/` source format (YAML, tools, model, skills)
   - Syncs `.claude/` → `.opencode/` (auto-sync)
   - Validates `.opencode/` output (semantic equivalence)
   - Skipped if no config changes in staged files (work avoidance)
4. Runs ayokoding-web pre-commit scripts if affected (title updates + navigation)
5. Stages any changes made by scripts
6. `lint-staged` selects staged files
7. Prettier formats matching files
8. Formatted files are automatically staged
9. Validates markdown links in staged files
10. Validates all markdown files (markdownlint)
11. Commit proceeds if no errors

**What It Validates**:

**Configuration Validation** (Added 2026-01-22):

Validates `.claude/` and `.opencode/` consistency before commit:

1. Detects if `.claude/` or `.opencode/` in staged files
2. If changed:
   - Validates `.claude/` source format (YAML, tools, model, skills)
   - Syncs `.claude/` → `.opencode/` (auto-sync)
   - Validates `.opencode/` output (semantic equivalence)
3. If unchanged: Skips validation (performance)

**Benefits:**

- Catches config errors before commit (earliest possible)
- Prevents invalid commits from being created locally
- Ensures `.claude/` and `.opencode/` stay in sync
- Auto-syncs on commit (no manual step)
- Only runs when config files in staged files (~260ms when needed)

**Markdown:**

- Validates markdown links in staged files only (fast, targeted)
- Validates all markdown files meet linting standards (comprehensive)

**What Happens on Failure**:

- Commit is blocked
- Error message shows which check failed (config, formatting, or markdown)
- Fix the issue and try again

**Example**:

```bash
$ git commit -m "feat: add new feature"
🔍 Validating .claude/ and .opencode/ configuration...
Validation Complete (513 checks passed)
Sync Complete (57 agents, 34 skills)
Validation Complete (68 checks passed)
✅ Configuration validation passed
 Preparing lint-staged...
 Running tasks for staged files...
 Applying modifications from tasks...
 Cleaning up temporary files...
[main abc1234] feat: add new feature
```

### Commit-msg Hook

**Location**: `.husky/commit-msg`

**Execution Order**:

1. Pre-commit hook completes successfully
2. Commit-msg hook triggers
3. Commitlint validates commit message format
4. Commit proceeds if message is valid

**What It Validates**:

- Commit message follows [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/)
- See [Commit Message Convention](../workflow/commit-messages.md) for complete rules

**What Happens on Failure**:

- Commit is blocked
- Error message shows what's wrong with the commit message
- Fix the message and try again

**Example**:

```bash
$ git commit -m "added new feature"
⧗   input: added new feature
   subject may not be empty [subject-empty]
   type may not be empty [type-empty]
   found 2 problems, 0 warnings
```

### Pre-push Hook

**Location**: `.husky/pre-push`

**Execution Order**:

1. You run `git push`
2. Pre-push hook triggers
3. Nx detects affected projects since last push
4. `test:quick` target runs for each affected project
5. Push proceeds if all tests pass

**What It Validates**:

**Tests:**

- Runs unit tests for all projects affected by changes
- Uses Nx affected detection to test only changed code
- Ensures broken code doesn't reach the remote repository

**What Happens on Failure**:

- Push is blocked
- Error message shows which tests failed
- Fix the issue and try again

**Example**:

```bash
$ git push origin main

> nx affected -t test:quick

 Running target test:quick for affected projects...
   rhino-cli
   ayokoding-cli
 All tests passed

Enumerating objects: 5, done.
[main abc1234] Successfully pushed
```

**Benefits**:

- Prevents broken code from reaching remote repository
- Only tests affected projects (faster than testing everything)
- Catches issues before CI/CD pipeline runs
- Maintains repository quality for all team members

## Bypassing Hooks (Not Recommended)

You can bypass git hooks using `--no-verify`:

```bash
git commit --no-verify -m "message"
```

**WARNING**: Only use this in exceptional circumstances:

- Emergency hotfixes where formatting can be fixed later
- When hooks are malfunctioning (report the issue)
- **NEVER** use this to avoid fixing code quality issues

Bypassing hooks regularly defeats the purpose of automated quality checks.

## Troubleshooting

### Prettier Fails to Format

**Symptom**: Pre-commit hook fails with Prettier errors

**Solutions**:

1. Check if the file has syntax errors (Prettier can't format invalid code)
2. Run Prettier manually to see detailed error: `npx prettier --write [file]`
3. Fix syntax errors, then commit again

### Commitlint Rejects Valid Message

**Symptom**: Commit-msg hook fails but message looks correct

**Solutions**:

1. Verify message follows exact format: `<type>(<scope>): <description>`
2. Check type is lowercase and from valid list
3. Ensure description is in imperative mood
4. See [Commit Message Convention](../workflow/commit-messages.md) for complete rules

### Hooks Not Running

**Symptom**: Git hooks don't execute when committing or pushing

**Solutions**:

1. Run `npm install` to ensure Husky is set up
2. Check `.husky/` directory exists with hook files
3. Verify hook files are executable: `ls -la .husky/`
4. If needed, make executable: `chmod +x .husky/pre-commit .husky/commit-msg .husky/pre-push`

### Tests Fail on Pre-push

**Symptom**: Pre-push hook blocks push due to test failures

**Solutions**:

1. Check which tests failed in the error output
2. Run tests locally: `nx affected -t test:quick`
3. Fix failing tests
4. Commit fixes and push again
5. If tests pass locally but fail in hook, ensure all changes are committed

### Config Validation Fails on Pre-commit

**Symptom**: Pre-commit hook fails with config validation errors

**Solutions**:

1. Identify which step failed:
   - `.claude/` validation: Fix source files in `.claude/agents/` or `.claude/skills/`
   - Sync: Check rhino-cli output, may be a bug
   - `.opencode/` validation: Re-run `npm run sync:claude-to-opencode`

2. Run validation manually to debug:

   ```bash
   npm run validate:claude      # Check .claude/ format
   npm run sync:claude-to-opencode  # Sync to .opencode/
   npm run validate:opencode    # Check .opencode/ output
   ```

3. Common validation errors:
   - Invalid tool name: Must be Read, Write, Edit, Glob, Grep, Bash, TodoWrite, WebFetch, WebSearch
   - Missing description: All agents/skills need description field
   - Invalid model: Must be empty, "sonnet", "opus", or "haiku"
   - Skill not found: Ensure skill exists in `.claude/skills/`

4. Bypass hook temporarily (emergency only):

   ```bash
   git push --no-verify
   ```

   Note: Fix validation errors before merging to main.

## Adding New File Types

To add Prettier formatting for new file types:

1. Update `lint-staged` configuration in `package.json`
2. Add new glob pattern and Prettier command
3. Test with a sample file
4. Commit the configuration change

**Example** (adding Python files):

```json
{
  "lint-staged": {
    "*.py": ["prettier --write"]
  }
}
```

## Integration with Development Workflow

### Normal Workflow

```bash
# 1. Make changes to files
vim src/index.ts

# 2. Stage files
git add src/index.ts

# 3. Commit (hooks run automatically)
git commit -m "feat(api): add new endpoint"

# Hooks execute:
#  Prettier formats src/index.ts
#  Commitlint validates message
#  Commit succeeds

# 4. Push to remote (pre-push hook runs)
git push origin main

# Pre-push hook executes:
#  Nx detects affected projects
#  Runs test:quick for affected projects
#  Push succeeds
```

### When Hooks Modify Files

```bash
# 1. Stage and commit
git add src/messy.ts
git commit -m "fix: correct validation logic"

# Prettier formats messy.ts and stages it
# Commit includes formatted version automatically
```

## Best Practices

1. **Trust the Tools**: Let Prettier handle formatting - don't fight it
2. **Commit Often**: Smaller commits = faster hook execution
3. **Fix Issues Immediately**: Don't accumulate quality debt
4. **Don't Bypass**: Resist temptation to use `--no-verify`
5. **Keep Updated**: Run `npm install` after pulling changes to sync hook versions

## Related Documentation

- [Commit Message Convention](../workflow/commit-messages.md) - Detailed commit message rules
- [Trunk Based Development](../workflow/trunk-based-development.md) - Git workflow and branching strategy

## References

- [Prettier Documentation](https://prettier.io/docs/en/)
- [Husky Documentation](https://typicode.github.io/husky/)
- [lint-staged Documentation](https://github.com/lint-staged/lint-staged)
- [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/)

Commit message:

chore(governance): propagate Nx target standards across repository
Update all docs, READMEs, skills, and CLAUDE.md to use canonical Nx
target names (test:quick, test:unit, test:integration, test:e2e, dev,
start) and correct nx affected -t syntax. Fixes nx serve → nx dev,
nx test → nx run [project]:test:quick, nx affected:build →
nx affected -t build throughout the codebase.

governance/development/quality/code.md, after:

---
title: Code Quality Convention
tags:
  - development
  - code-quality
  - prettier
  - husky
  - lint-staged
  - git-hooks
  - automation
category: explanation
subcategory: development
---

# Code Quality Convention

This document explains the automated code quality tools and git hooks used in this repository to maintain consistent code formatting and commit message standards.

## Principles Implemented/Respected

This practice respects the following core principles:

- **[Automation Over Manual](../../principles/software-engineering/automation-over-manual.md)**: Git hooks (Husky) automatically run Prettier and Commitlint before commits. Humans write code, machines enforce formatting and standards. No manual formatting or message validation required.

- **[Simplicity Over Complexity](../../principles/general/simplicity-over-complexity.md)**: Prettier uses default settings - no custom configuration file. Commitlint uses standard Conventional Commits spec. Minimal tooling configuration reduces complexity.

## Conventions Implemented/Respected

**REQUIRED SECTION**: All development practice documents MUST include this section to ensure traceability from practices to documentation standards.

This practice implements/respects the following conventions:

- **[Commit Message Convention](../workflow/commit-messages.md)**: Git hooks enforce Conventional Commits format through Commitlint, validating commit message structure before commits are created.

- **[Indentation Convention](../../conventions/formatting/indentation.md)**: Prettier enforces consistent indentation (2 spaces for YAML frontmatter) across all formatted file types.

- **[File Naming Convention](../../conventions/structure/file-naming.md)**: Pre-commit hook formats all files matching the repository's file naming patterns without altering the naming structure.

## Overview

This project enforces code quality through automated tools that run during the development workflow:

- **Prettier** - Automatic code formatting
- **Husky** - Git hooks management
- **Lint-staged** - Run tools on staged files only
- **Commitlint** - Commit message validation (see [Commit Message Convention](../workflow/commit-messages.md))

These tools work together to ensure code consistency and quality without manual intervention.

## Prettier - Code Formatting

**Purpose**: Automatically format code to maintain consistent style across the codebase.

**Supported File Types**:

- JavaScript/TypeScript: `*.{js,jsx,ts,tsx,mjs,cjs}`
- JSON: `*.json`
- Markdown: `*.md` (excluding Hugo archetypes)
- YAML: `*.{yml,yaml}`
- CSS/SCSS: `*.{css,scss}`

**Note**: Hugo archetype template files (`apps/ayokoding-web/archetypes/**/*.md`) are excluded from Prettier formatting as they contain Go template syntax.

**When It Runs**: Automatically on staged files before each commit via the pre-commit hook.

**Configuration**: Prettier uses default settings (no custom configuration file). This ensures maximum compatibility and reduces configuration overhead.

**Manual Formatting**: You can manually format files with:

```bash
npx prettier --write [file-path]
```

## Husky - Git Hooks

**Purpose**: Manage git hooks to run automated checks at specific points in the git workflow.

**Hooks Configured**:

- `.husky/pre-commit` - Runs before commit is created
- `.husky/commit-msg` - Runs after commit message is entered
- `.husky/pre-push` - Runs before pushing to remote

**Why Husky**: Ensures all developers have the same git hooks configured automatically after running `npm install`. Hooks are stored in the repository (`.husky/` directory) for version control.

## Lint-staged

**Purpose**: Run linters and formatters only on staged files (not the entire codebase).

**Configuration** (in `package.json`):

```json
{
  "lint-staged": {
    "*.{js,jsx,ts,tsx,mjs,cjs}": "prettier --write",
    "*.json": "prettier --write",
    "apps/ayokoding-web/archetypes/**/*.md": "echo 'Skipping Hugo archetype'",
    "*.md": "prettier --write",
    "*.{yml,yaml}": "prettier --write",
    "*.{css,scss}": "prettier --write"
  }
}
```

**How It Works**:

1. Identifies files staged for commit (`git add`)
2. Runs Prettier on matching file types
3. Automatically stages formatted files
4. Allows commit to proceed if successful

**Benefits**:

- Faster than running tools on entire codebase
- Only formats files you're committing
- Prevents incorrectly formatted code from being committed

## Git Hook Workflow

### Pre-commit Hook

**Location**: `.husky/pre-commit`

**Execution Order**:

1. You run `git commit`
2. Pre-commit hook triggers
3. **Configuration Validation** (if `.claude/` or `.opencode/` staged):
   - Validates `.claude/` source format (YAML, tools, model, skills)
   - Syncs `.claude/` → `.opencode/` (auto-sync)
   - Validates `.opencode/` output (semantic equivalence)
   - Skipped if no config changes in staged files (work avoidance)
4. Runs ayokoding-web pre-commit scripts if affected (title updates + navigation)
5. Stages any changes made by scripts
6. `lint-staged` selects staged files
7. Prettier formats matching files
8. Formatted files are automatically staged
9. Validates markdown links in staged files
10. Validates all markdown files (markdownlint)
11. Commit proceeds if no errors

**What It Validates**:

**Configuration Validation** (Added 2026-01-22):

Validates `.claude/` and `.opencode/` consistency before commit:

1. Detects if `.claude/` or `.opencode/` in staged files
2. If changed:
   - Validates `.claude/` source format (YAML, tools, model, skills)
   - Syncs `.claude/` → `.opencode/` (auto-sync)
   - Validates `.opencode/` output (semantic equivalence)
3. If unchanged: Skips validation (performance)

**Benefits:**

- Catches config errors before commit (earliest possible)
- Prevents invalid commits from being created locally
- Ensures `.claude/` and `.opencode/` stay in sync
- Auto-syncs on commit (no manual step)
- Only runs when config files in staged files (~260ms when needed)

**Markdown:**

- Validates markdown links in staged files only (fast, targeted)
- Validates all markdown files meet linting standards (comprehensive)

**What Happens on Failure**:

- Commit is blocked
- Error message shows which check failed (config, formatting, or markdown)
- Fix the issue and try again

**Example**:

```bash
$ git commit -m "feat: add new feature"
🔍 Validating .claude/ and .opencode/ configuration...
Validation Complete (513 checks passed)
Sync Complete (57 agents, 34 skills)
Validation Complete (68 checks passed)
✅ Configuration validation passed
 Preparing lint-staged...
 Running tasks for staged files...
 Applying modifications from tasks...
 Cleaning up temporary files...
[main abc1234] feat: add new feature
```

### Commit-msg Hook

**Location**: `.husky/commit-msg`

**Execution Order**:

1. Pre-commit hook completes successfully
2. Commit-msg hook triggers
3. Commitlint validates commit message format
4. Commit proceeds if message is valid

**What It Validates**:

- Commit message follows [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/)
- See [Commit Message Convention](../workflow/commit-messages.md) for complete rules

**What Happens on Failure**:

- Commit is blocked
- Error message shows what's wrong with the commit message
- Fix the message and try again

**Example**:

```bash
$ git commit -m "added new feature"
⧗   input: added new feature
   subject may not be empty [subject-empty]
   type may not be empty [type-empty]
   found 2 problems, 0 warnings
```

### Pre-push Hook

**Location**: `.husky/pre-push`

**Execution Order**:

1. You run `git push`
2. Pre-push hook triggers
3. Nx detects affected projects since last push
4. `test:quick` target runs for each affected project
5. Push proceeds if all tests pass

**What It Validates**:

**Tests:**

- Runs unit tests for all projects affected by changes
- Uses Nx affected detection to test only changed code
- Ensures broken code doesn't reach the remote repository

**What Happens on Failure**:

- Push is blocked
- Error message shows which tests failed
- Fix the issue and try again

**Example**:

```bash
$ git push origin main

> nx affected -t test:quick

 Running target test:quick for affected projects...
   rhino-cli
   ayokoding-cli
 All tests passed

Enumerating objects: 5, done.
[main abc1234] Successfully pushed
```

**Benefits**:

- Prevents broken code from reaching remote repository
- Only tests affected projects (faster than testing everything)
- Catches issues before CI/CD pipeline runs
- Maintains repository quality for all team members

## Bypassing Hooks (Not Recommended)

You can bypass git hooks using `--no-verify`:

```bash
git commit --no-verify -m "message"
```

**WARNING**: Only use this in exceptional circumstances:

- Emergency hotfixes where formatting can be fixed later
- When hooks are malfunctioning (report the issue)
- **NEVER** use this to avoid fixing code quality issues

Bypassing hooks regularly defeats the purpose of automated quality checks.

## Troubleshooting

### Prettier Fails to Format

**Symptom**: Pre-commit hook fails with Prettier errors

**Solutions**:

1. Check if the file has syntax errors (Prettier can't format invalid code)
2. Run Prettier manually to see detailed error: `npx prettier --write [file]`
3. Fix syntax errors, then commit again

### Commitlint Rejects Valid Message

**Symptom**: Commit-msg hook fails but message looks correct

**Solutions**:

1. Verify message follows exact format: `<type>(<scope>): <description>`
2. Check type is lowercase and from valid list
3. Ensure description is in imperative mood
4. See [Commit Message Convention](../workflow/commit-messages.md) for complete rules

### Hooks Not Running

**Symptom**: Git hooks don't execute when committing or pushing

**Solutions**:

1. Run `npm install` to ensure Husky is set up
2. Check `.husky/` directory exists with hook files
3. Verify hook files are executable: `ls -la .husky/`
4. If needed, make executable: `chmod +x .husky/pre-commit .husky/commit-msg .husky/pre-push`

### Tests Fail on Pre-push

**Symptom**: Pre-push hook blocks push due to test failures

**Solutions**:

1. Check which tests failed in the error output
2. Run tests locally: `nx affected -t test:quick`
3. Fix failing tests
4. Commit fixes and push again
5. If tests pass locally but fail in hook, ensure all changes are committed

### Config Validation Fails on Pre-commit

**Symptom**: Pre-commit hook fails with config validation errors

**Solutions**:

1. Identify which step failed:
   - `.claude/` validation: Fix source files in `.claude/agents/` or `.claude/skills/`
   - Sync: Check rhino-cli output, may be a bug
   - `.opencode/` validation: Re-run `npm run sync:claude-to-opencode`

2. Run validation manually to debug:

   ```bash
   npm run validate:claude      # Check .claude/ format
   npm run sync:claude-to-opencode  # Sync to .opencode/
   npm run validate:opencode    # Check .opencode/ output
   ```

3. Common validation errors:
   - Invalid tool name: Must be Read, Write, Edit, Glob, Grep, Bash, TodoWrite, WebFetch, WebSearch
   - Missing description: All agents/skills need description field
   - Invalid model: Must be empty, "sonnet", "opus", or "haiku"
   - Skill not found: Ensure skill exists in `.claude/skills/`

4. Bypass hook temporarily (emergency only):

   ```bash
   git push --no-verify
   ```

   Note: Fix validation errors before merging to main.

## Adding New File Types

To add Prettier formatting for new file types:

1. Update `lint-staged` configuration in `package.json`
2. Add new glob pattern and Prettier command
3. Test with a sample file
4. Commit the configuration change

**Example** (adding Python files):

```json
{
  "lint-staged": {
    "*.py": ["prettier --write"]
  }
}
```

## Integration with Development Workflow

### Normal Workflow

```bash
# 1. Make changes to files
vim src/index.ts

# 2. Stage files
git add src/index.ts

# 3. Commit (hooks run automatically)
git commit -m "feat(api): add new endpoint"

# Hooks execute:
#  Prettier formats src/index.ts
#  Commitlint validates message
#  Commit succeeds

# 4. Push to remote (pre-push hook runs)
git push origin main

# Pre-push hook executes:
#  Nx detects affected projects
#  Runs test:quick for affected projects
#  Push succeeds
```

### When Hooks Modify Files

```bash
# 1. Stage and commit
git add src/messy.ts
git commit -m "fix: correct validation logic"

# Prettier formats messy.ts and stages it
# Commit includes formatted version automatically
```

## Best Practices

1. **Trust the Tools**: Let Prettier handle formatting - don't fight it
2. **Commit Often**: Smaller commits = faster hook execution
3. **Fix Issues Immediately**: Don't accumulate quality debt
4. **Don't Bypass**: Resist temptation to use `--no-verify`
5. **Keep Updated**: Run `npm install` after pulling changes to sync hook versions

## Related Documentation

- [Commit Message Convention](../workflow/commit-messages.md) - Detailed commit message rules
- [Trunk Based Development](../workflow/trunk-based-development.md) - Git workflow and branching strategy
- [Nx Target Standards](../infra/nx-targets.md) - Canonical target names, `test:quick` composition rules, and caching configuration that the pre-push hook depends on

## References

- [Prettier Documentation](https://prettier.io/docs/en/)
- [Husky Documentation](https://typicode.github.io/husky/)
- [lint-staged Documentation](https://github.com/lint-staged/lint-staged)
- [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/)
