apps/ayokoding-web/content/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/_index.md, before:

---
title: Golang
date: 2025-12-12T00:00:00+07:00
draft: false
description: Complete learning path from installation to expert mastery - organized using the Diátaxis framework
weight: 11000
type: docs
layout: list
---

- [Overview](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/overview)
- [Tutorials](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/tutorials)
  - [Overview](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/tutorials/overview)
  - [Initial Setup](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/tutorials/initial-setup)
  - [Quick Start](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/tutorials/quick-start)
  - [Beginner](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/tutorials/beginner)
  - [Intermediate](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/tutorials/intermediate)
  - [Advanced](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/tutorials/advanced)
- [How-To Guides](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/how-to)
  - [Overview](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/how-to/overview)
  - [Cookbook](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/how-to/cookbook)
  - [How to Handle Errors Effectively](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/how-to/handle-errors-effectively)
  - [How to Avoid Nil Panics](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/how-to/avoid-nil-panics)
  - [How to Use Slices and Maps Effectively](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/how-to/use-slices-and-maps-effectively)
  - [How to Work with Strings Effectively](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/how-to/work-with-strings-effectively)
  - [How to Use Goroutines and Channels](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/how-to/use-goroutines-and-channels)
  - [How to Handle Files and Resources](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/how-to/handle-files-and-resources)
  - [How to Manage Configuration](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/how-to/manage-configuration)
  - [How to Design Interfaces Properly](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/how-to/design-interfaces-properly)
  - [How to Refactor God Packages](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/how-to/refactor-god-packages)
  - [How to Write Effective Tests](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/how-to/write-effective-tests)
  - [How to Debug and Log Effectively](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/how-to/debug-and-log-effectively)
  - [How to Document Code Effectively](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/how-to/document-code-effectively)
  - [How to Build CLI Applications](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/how-to/build-cli-applications)
  - [How to Optimize Performance](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/how-to/optimize-performance)
  - [How to Work with Databases](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/how-to/work-with-databases)
  - [How to Build REST APIs](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/how-to/build-rest-apis)
  - [How to Use Dependency Injection Patterns](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/how-to/dependency-injection-patterns)
  - [How to Work with JSON Effectively](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/how-to/work-with-json-effectively)
  - [How to Implement Middleware](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/how-to/implement-middleware)
  - [How to Implement Graceful Shutdown](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/how-to/graceful-shutdown)
  - [How to Implement Rate Limiting](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/how-to/rate-limiting-patterns)
  - [How to Write Table-Driven Tests](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/how-to/table-driven-tests)
  - [How to Use Generics Effectively](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/how-to/generics-patterns)
- [Explanation](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/explanation)
  - [Overview](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/explanation/overview)
  - [Go Best Practices and Idioms](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/explanation/best-practices)
  - [Common Go Anti-Patterns](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/explanation/anti-patterns)
- [Reference](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/reference)
  - [Overview](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/reference/overview)
  - [Go Cheat Sheet](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/reference/cheat-sheet)
  - [Go Glossary](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/reference/glossary)
  - [Go Resources](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/reference/resources)

Commit message:

fix(ayokoding-cli): correct navigation path calculation for subdirectory regeneration
Fix bug where ayokoding-navigation-maker generated relative paths instead of
absolute paths with language prefix when regenerating navigation for
subdirectories.

The issue: processIndexFile() used contentDir (the target subdirectory) to
calculate relative paths, resulting in incorrect paths when contentDir was a
nested directory like content/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/tutorials/by-example.

The fix: Implement findContentRoot() to locate the actual content directory
root and use it for all path calculations, regardless of input directory.
Added findIndexFilesInDir() to process only files within the target directory
while maintaining correct path context.

This ensures navigation is correctly regenerated for both root-level and
nested-level _index.md files.

Side effect: Regenerates all affected navigation index files with properly
formatted paths including new Golang by-example tutorial links.

apps/ayokoding-web/content/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/_index.md, after:

---
title: Golang
date: 2025-12-12T00:00:00+07:00
draft: false
description: Complete learning path from installation to expert mastery - organized using the Diátaxis framework
weight: 11000
type: docs
layout: list
---

- [Overview](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/overview)
- [Tutorials](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/tutorials)
  - [Overview](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/tutorials/overview)
  - [Initial Setup](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/tutorials/initial-setup)
  - [Quick Start](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/tutorials/quick-start)
  - [Beginner](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/tutorials/beginner)
  - [Intermediate](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/tutorials/intermediate)
  - [Advanced](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/tutorials/advanced)
  - [By Example](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/tutorials/by-example)
    - [Overview](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/tutorials/by-example/overview)
    - [Beginner Examples - Go By Example](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/tutorials/by-example/beginner)
    - [Intermediate Examples - Go By Example](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/tutorials/by-example/intermediate)
    - [Advanced Examples - Go By Example](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/tutorials/by-example/advanced)
- [How-To Guides](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/how-to)
  - [Overview](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/how-to/overview)
  - [Cookbook](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/how-to/cookbook)
  - [How to Handle Errors Effectively](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/how-to/handle-errors-effectively)
  - [How to Avoid Nil Panics](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/how-to/avoid-nil-panics)
  - [How to Use Slices and Maps Effectively](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/how-to/use-slices-and-maps-effectively)
  - [How to Work with Strings Effectively](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/how-to/work-with-strings-effectively)
  - [How to Use Goroutines and Channels](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/how-to/use-goroutines-and-channels)
  - [How to Handle Files and Resources](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/how-to/handle-files-and-resources)
  - [How to Manage Configuration](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/how-to/manage-configuration)
  - [How to Design Interfaces Properly](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/how-to/design-interfaces-properly)
  - [How to Refactor God Packages](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/how-to/refactor-god-packages)
  - [How to Write Effective Tests](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/how-to/write-effective-tests)
  - [How to Debug and Log Effectively](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/how-to/debug-and-log-effectively)
  - [How to Document Code Effectively](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/how-to/document-code-effectively)
  - [How to Build CLI Applications](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/how-to/build-cli-applications)
  - [How to Optimize Performance](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/how-to/optimize-performance)
  - [How to Work with Databases](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/how-to/work-with-databases)
  - [How to Build REST APIs](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/how-to/build-rest-apis)
  - [How to Use Dependency Injection Patterns](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/how-to/dependency-injection-patterns)
  - [How to Work with JSON Effectively](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/how-to/work-with-json-effectively)
  - [How to Implement Middleware](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/how-to/implement-middleware)
  - [How to Implement Graceful Shutdown](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/how-to/graceful-shutdown)
  - [How to Implement Rate Limiting](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/how-to/rate-limiting-patterns)
  - [How to Write Table-Driven Tests](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/how-to/table-driven-tests)
  - [How to Use Generics Effectively](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/how-to/generics-patterns)
- [Explanation](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/explanation)
  - [Overview](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/explanation/overview)
  - [Go Best Practices and Idioms](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/explanation/best-practices)
  - [Common Go Anti-Patterns](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/explanation/anti-patterns)
- [Reference](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/reference)
  - [Overview](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/reference/overview)
  - [Go Cheat Sheet](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/reference/cheat-sheet)
  - [Go Glossary](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/reference/glossary)
  - [Go Resources](/en/learn/swe/prog-lang/golang/reference/resources)
