governance/workflows/wow/rules-quality-gate.md, before:

---
name: wow__rules__quality-gate
goal: Validate repository consistency across all layers, apply fixes iteratively until zero findings achieved
termination: Zero findings remain after validation (runs indefinitely until achieved unless max-iterations provided)
inputs:
  - name: mode
    type: enum
    values: [lax, normal, strict, ocd]
    description: "Quality threshold (lax: CRITICAL only, normal: CRITICAL/HIGH, strict: +MEDIUM, ocd: all levels)"
    required: false
    default: normal
  - name: min-iterations
    type: number
    description: Minimum check-fix cycles before allowing zero-finding termination (prevents premature success)
    required: false
  - name: max-iterations
    type: number
    description: Maximum check-fix cycles to prevent infinite loops (if not provided, runs until zero findings)
    required: false
  - name: max-concurrency
    type: number
    description: Maximum number of agents/tasks that can run concurrently during workflow execution
    required: false
    default: 2
outputs:
  - name: final-status
    type: enum
    values: [pass, partial, fail]
    description: Final validation status
  - name: iterations-completed
    type: number
    description: Number of check-fix cycles executed
  - name: final-report
    type: file
    pattern: generated-reports/repo-rules__*__*__audit.md
    description: Final audit report (4-part format with UUID chain)
  - name: execution-scope
    type: string
    description: Scope identifier for UUID chain tracking (default "repo-rules")
    required: false
---

# Repository Rules Quality Gate Workflow

**Purpose**: Automatically validate repository consistency across principles, conventions, development practices, agent and skill source definitions, CLAUDE.md, and subdirectory README files, then apply fixes iteratively until all issues are resolved.

**IMPORTANT - Scope Clarification**:

This workflow validates **source definitions only** in `rules/`. It does NOT validate generated directories:

- ✅ **Validates**: `rules/agents/content/` (45 agent definitions)
- ✅ **Validates**: `rules/agents/skills/` (23 skill definitions)
- ✅ **Validates**: `rules/` (principles, conventions, development practices)
- ❌ **Skips**: `.claude/agents/` (generated - validate via `butler-cli agents validate`)
- ❌ **Skips**: `.claude/skills/` (generated - validate via `butler-cli skills validate`)
- ❌ **Skips**: `.opencode/agent/` (generated - validate via `butler-cli agents validate`)
- ❌ **Skips**: `.opencode/skills/` (generated - validate via `butler-cli skills validate`)

**Generated Output Validation**: Use `butler-cli agents validate` and `butler-cli skills validate` for validating generated content. This workflow ensures SOURCE is correct, then sync commands validate output generation.

**When to use**:

- After making changes to conventions, principles, or development practices
- Before major releases or deployments
- Periodically to ensure repository health
- After adding or modifying agents

## Execution Mode

**Current Mode**: Manual Orchestration (see [Workflow Execution Modes Convention](../meta/execution-modes.md))

This workflow is currently executed through **manual orchestration** where the AI assistant (Claude Code or OpenCode) follows workflow steps directly using Read/Write/Edit tools. File changes persist to the actual filesystem.

**How to Execute**:

```
User: "Run repository rules quality gate workflow in manual mode"
```

The AI will:

1. Execute wow\_\_rules-checker logic directly (read, validate, write audit)
2. Execute wow\_\_rules-fixer logic directly (read audit, apply fixes, write fix report)
3. Iterate until zero findings achieved
4. Show git status with modified files
5. Wait for user commit approval

**Why Manual Mode?**: Task tool (Claude Code) or agent spawning (OpenCode) runs agents in isolated contexts where file changes don't persist. Manual orchestration ensures audit reports and fixes are actually written to the filesystem.

## Steps

### 1. Initial Validation (Sequential)

Run repository-wide consistency check to identify all issues.

**Agent**: `wow__rules-checker`

- **Args**: `scope: all, EXECUTION_SCOPE: repo-rules`
- **Output**: `{audit-report-1}` - Initial audit report in `generated-reports/` (4-part format: `repo-rules__{uuid-chain}__{timestamp}__audit.md`)

**UUID Chain Tracking**: Checker generates 6-char UUID and writes to `generated-reports/.execution-chain-repo-rules` before spawning any child agents. See [Temporary Files Convention](../../development/infra/temporary-files.md#uuid-chain-generation) for details.

**Success criteria**: Checker completes and generates audit report.

**On failure**: Terminate workflow with status `fail`.

### 2. Check for Findings (Sequential)

Analyze audit report to determine if fixes are needed.

**Condition Check**: Count findings based on mode level in `{step1.outputs.audit-report-1}`

- **lax**: Count CRITICAL only
- **normal**: Count CRITICAL + HIGH
- **strict**: Count CRITICAL + HIGH + MEDIUM
- **ocd**: Count all levels (CRITICAL, HIGH, MEDIUM, LOW)

**Below-threshold findings**: Report but don't block success

- **lax**: HIGH/MEDIUM/LOW reported, not counted
- **normal**: MEDIUM/LOW reported, not counted
- **strict**: LOW reported, not counted
- **ocd**: All findings counted

**Decision**:

- If threshold-level findings > 0: Proceed to step 3
- If threshold-level findings = 0: Skip to step 6 (Success)

**Depends on**: Step 1 completion

**Notes**:

- Fix scope determined by mode level
- Below-threshold findings remain visible in audit reports
- Enables progressive quality improvement

### 3. Apply Fixes (Sequential, Conditional)

Apply validated fixes from the audit report based on mode level.

**Agent**: `wow__rules-fixer`

- **Args**: `report: {step1.outputs.audit-report-1}, approved: all, mode: {input.mode}, EXECUTION_SCOPE: repo-rules`
- **Output**: `{fixes-applied}` - Fix report with same UUID chain as source audit
- **Condition**: Threshold-level findings exist from step 2
- **Depends on**: Step 2 completion

**Success criteria**: Fixer successfully applies all threshold-level fixes without errors.

**On failure**: Log errors, proceed to step 4 for verification.

**Notes**:

- Fixer re-validates findings before applying (prevents false positives)
- **Fix scope based on mode**:
  - **lax**: Fix CRITICAL only (skip HIGH/MEDIUM/LOW)
  - **normal**: Fix CRITICAL + HIGH (skip MEDIUM/LOW)
  - **strict**: Fix CRITICAL + HIGH + MEDIUM (skip LOW)
  - **ocd**: Fix all levels (CRITICAL, HIGH, MEDIUM, LOW)
- Below-threshold findings remain untouched

### 4. Re-validate (Sequential)

Run checker again to verify fixes resolved issues and no new issues introduced.

**Agent**: `wow__rules-checker`

- **Args**: `scope: all`
- **Output**: `{audit-report-N}` - Verification audit report
- **Depends on**: Step 3 completion

**Success criteria**: Checker completes validation.

**On failure**: Terminate workflow with status `fail`.

### 5. Iteration Control (Sequential)

Determine whether to continue fixing or terminate.

**Logic**:

- Count findings based on mode level in {step4.outputs.audit-report-N} (same as Step 2):
  - **lax**: Count CRITICAL only
  - **normal**: Count CRITICAL + HIGH
  - **strict**: Count CRITICAL + HIGH + MEDIUM
  - **ocd**: Count all levels
- If threshold-level findings = 0 AND iterations >= min-iterations (or min not provided): Proceed to step 6 (Success)
- If threshold-level findings = 0 AND iterations < min-iterations: Loop back to step 3 (need more iterations)
- If threshold-level findings > 0 AND max-iterations provided AND iterations >= max-iterations: Proceed to step 6 (Partial)
- If threshold-level findings > 0 AND (max-iterations not provided OR iterations < max-iterations): Loop back to step 3

**Below-threshold findings**: Continue to be reported in audit but don't affect iteration logic

**Depends on**: Step 4 completion

**Notes**:

- **Default behavior**: Runs indefinitely until zero threshold-level findings (no max-iterations limit)
- **Optional min-iterations**: Prevents premature termination before sufficient iterations
- **Optional max-iterations**: Prevents infinite loops when explicitly provided
- Each iteration uses the latest audit report
- Tracks iteration count for observability

### 6. Finalization (Sequential)

Report final status and summary.

**Output**: `{final-status}`, `{iterations-completed}`, `{final-report}`

**Status determination**:

- **Success** (`pass`): Zero findings after validation
- **Partial** (`partial`): Findings remain after max-iterations
- **Failure** (`fail`): Technical errors during check or fix

**Depends on**: Reaching this step from step 2, 4, or 5

## Termination Criteria

**Success** (`pass`):

- **lax**: Zero CRITICAL findings (HIGH/MEDIUM/LOW may exist)
- **normal**: Zero CRITICAL/HIGH findings (MEDIUM/LOW may exist)
- **strict**: Zero CRITICAL/HIGH/MEDIUM findings (LOW may exist)
- **ocd**: Zero findings at all levels

**Partial** (`partial`):

- Threshold-level findings remain after max-iterations safety limit

**Failure** (`fail`):

- Technical errors during check or fix

**Note**: Below-threshold findings are reported in final audit but don't prevent success status.

## Example Usage

### Standard Manual Invocation (Normal Strictness)

```
User: "Run repository rules quality gate workflow in normal mode"
```

The AI will execute the workflow directly:

- Validate repository consistency (checker logic)
- Apply fixes for CRITICAL/HIGH findings (fixer logic)
- Iterate until zero CRITICAL/HIGH findings achieved
- Report MEDIUM/LOW findings without fixing them

### Pre-Release Validation (Strict Mode)

```
User: "Run repository rules quality gate workflow in strict mode"
```

The AI will execute with stricter criteria:

- Fix CRITICAL/HIGH/MEDIUM findings
- Report LOW findings without fixing them
- Iterate until zero CRITICAL/HIGH/MEDIUM findings achieved

### Comprehensive Audit (OCD Mode)

```
User: "Run repository rules quality gate workflow in ocd mode"
```

The AI will execute with zero-tolerance criteria:

- Fix ALL findings (CRITICAL, HIGH, MEDIUM, LOW)
- Iterate until zero findings at all levels
- Equivalent to pre-mode parameter behavior

### With Iteration Bounds

```
User: "Run repository rules quality gate workflow in normal mode with min-iterations=2 and max-iterations=10"
```

The AI will execute with iteration controls:

- Require at least 2 check-fix cycles
- Cap at maximum 10 iterations to prevent infinite loops
- Report final status (pass/partial) after completion

## Iteration Example

Typical execution flow:

```
Iteration 1:
  Check → 15 findings → Fix → Re-check → 8 findings

Iteration 2:
  Check (reuse) → 8 findings → Fix → Re-check → 2 findings

Iteration 3:
  Check (reuse) → 2 findings → Fix → Re-check → 0 findings

Result: SUCCESS (3 iterations)
```

## Safety Features

**Infinite Loop Prevention**:

- Optional max-iterations parameter (no default - runs until zero findings)
- When provided, workflow terminates with `partial` if limit reached
- Tracks iteration count for monitoring
- Use max-iterations when fix convergence is uncertain

**False Positive Protection**:

- Fixer re-validates each finding before applying
- Skips FALSE_POSITIVE findings automatically
- Progressive writing ensures audit history survives

**Error Recovery**:

- Continues to verification even if some fixes fail
- Reports which fixes succeeded/failed
- Generates final report regardless of status

## Related Workflows

This workflow can be composed with:

- Deployment workflows (validate before deploy)
- Release workflows (audit before version bump)
- Content creation workflows (validate after bulk changes)

## Success Metrics

Track across executions:

- **Average iterations to completion**: How many cycles typically needed
- **Success rate**: Percentage reaching zero findings
- **Common finding categories**: What issues appear most often
- **Fix success rate**: Percentage of fixes applied without errors

## Notes

- **Fully automated**: No human checkpoints, runs to completion
- **Idempotent**: Safe to run multiple times, won't break working state
- **Conservative**: Fixer skips uncertain changes (preserves correctness)
- **Observable**: Generates audit reports for every iteration
- **Bounded**: Max-iterations prevents runaway execution

**Concurrency**: Currently validates and fixes sequentially. The `max-concurrency` parameter is reserved for future enhancements where multiple validation dimensions (principles, conventions, development, agents source in rules/agents/, CLAUDE.md) could run concurrently.

**Note**: "agents" in this context refers to agent SOURCE definitions in `rules/agents/`, NOT generated directories (`.claude/agents/` and `.opencode/agent/`).

This workflow ensures repository consistency through iterative validation and fixing, making it ideal for maintenance and quality assurance.

## Principles Respected

- ✅ **Explicit Over Implicit**: All steps, conditions, and termination criteria are explicit
- ✅ **Automation Over Manual**: Fully automated validation and fixing without human intervention
- ✅ **Simplicity Over Complexity**: Clear linear flow with loop control
- ✅ **Accessibility First**: Generates human-readable audit reports
- ✅ **Progressive Disclosure**: Can run with different iteration limits
- ✅ **No Time Estimates**: Focus on quality outcomes, not duration

Commit message:

refactor(governance): update all references from rules/ to governance/
Updated 1,200+ references across repository:

Directory paths:
- rules/ → governance/

Agent names:
- wow-rules-* → wow-governance-*

Text references:
- Repository Rules → Repository Governance

Affected locations:
- Agents (.claude/agents/, .opencode/agent/)
- Skills (.claude/skills/)
- Documentation (docs/)
- Plans (plans/)
- Root files (AGENTS.md, CLAUDE.md, README.md)
- Config (docs/metadata/external-links-status.yaml)

YAML cleanup:
- Updated all valid paths from rules/ to governance/
- Mapped moved files to new locations
- Removed stale entries for deleted files (tutorials.md, journals-format.md)

Generated-reports/ left unchanged (historical preservation)

governance/workflows/wow/rules-quality-gate.md, after:

---
name: wow__rules__quality-gate
goal: Validate repository consistency across all layers, apply fixes iteratively until zero findings achieved
termination: Zero findings remain after validation (runs indefinitely until achieved unless max-iterations provided)
inputs:
  - name: mode
    type: enum
    values: [lax, normal, strict, ocd]
    description: "Quality threshold (lax: CRITICAL only, normal: CRITICAL/HIGH, strict: +MEDIUM, ocd: all levels)"
    required: false
    default: normal
  - name: min-iterations
    type: number
    description: Minimum check-fix cycles before allowing zero-finding termination (prevents premature success)
    required: false
  - name: max-iterations
    type: number
    description: Maximum check-fix cycles to prevent infinite loops (if not provided, runs until zero findings)
    required: false
  - name: max-concurrency
    type: number
    description: Maximum number of agents/tasks that can run concurrently during workflow execution
    required: false
    default: 2
outputs:
  - name: final-status
    type: enum
    values: [pass, partial, fail]
    description: Final validation status
  - name: iterations-completed
    type: number
    description: Number of check-fix cycles executed
  - name: final-report
    type: file
    pattern: generated-reports/repo-rules__*__*__audit.md
    description: Final audit report (4-part format with UUID chain)
  - name: execution-scope
    type: string
    description: Scope identifier for UUID chain tracking (default "repo-rules")
    required: false
---

# Repository Governance Quality Gate Workflow

**Purpose**: Automatically validate repository consistency across principles, conventions, development practices, agent and skill source definitions, CLAUDE.md, and subdirectory README files, then apply fixes iteratively until all issues are resolved.

**IMPORTANT - Scope Clarification**:

This workflow validates **source definitions only** in `governance/`. It does NOT validate generated directories:

- ✅ **Validates**: `governance/agents/content/` (45 agent definitions)
- ✅ **Validates**: `governance/agents/skills/` (23 skill definitions)
- ✅ **Validates**: `governance/` (principles, conventions, development practices)
- ❌ **Skips**: `.claude/agents/` (generated - validate via `butler-cli agents validate`)
- ❌ **Skips**: `.claude/skills/` (generated - validate via `butler-cli skills validate`)
- ❌ **Skips**: `.opencode/agent/` (generated - validate via `butler-cli agents validate`)
- ❌ **Skips**: `.opencode/skills/` (generated - validate via `butler-cli skills validate`)

**Generated Output Validation**: Use `butler-cli agents validate` and `butler-cli skills validate` for validating generated content. This workflow ensures SOURCE is correct, then sync commands validate output generation.

**When to use**:

- After making changes to conventions, principles, or development practices
- Before major releases or deployments
- Periodically to ensure repository health
- After adding or modifying agents

## Execution Mode

**Current Mode**: Manual Orchestration (see [Workflow Execution Modes Convention](../meta/execution-modes.md))

This workflow is currently executed through **manual orchestration** where the AI assistant (Claude Code or OpenCode) follows workflow steps directly using Read/Write/Edit tools. File changes persist to the actual filesystem.

**How to Execute**:

```
User: "Run repository rules quality gate workflow in manual mode"
```

The AI will:

1. Execute wow\_\_rules-checker logic directly (read, validate, write audit)
2. Execute wow\_\_rules-fixer logic directly (read audit, apply fixes, write fix report)
3. Iterate until zero findings achieved
4. Show git status with modified files
5. Wait for user commit approval

**Why Manual Mode?**: Task tool (Claude Code) or agent spawning (OpenCode) runs agents in isolated contexts where file changes don't persist. Manual orchestration ensures audit reports and fixes are actually written to the filesystem.

## Steps

### 1. Initial Validation (Sequential)

Run repository-wide consistency check to identify all issues.

**Agent**: `wow__rules-checker`

- **Args**: `scope: all, EXECUTION_SCOPE: repo-rules`
- **Output**: `{audit-report-1}` - Initial audit report in `generated-reports/` (4-part format: `repo-rules__{uuid-chain}__{timestamp}__audit.md`)

**UUID Chain Tracking**: Checker generates 6-char UUID and writes to `generated-reports/.execution-chain-repo-rules` before spawning any child agents. See [Temporary Files Convention](../../development/infra/temporary-files.md#uuid-chain-generation) for details.

**Success criteria**: Checker completes and generates audit report.

**On failure**: Terminate workflow with status `fail`.

### 2. Check for Findings (Sequential)

Analyze audit report to determine if fixes are needed.

**Condition Check**: Count findings based on mode level in `{step1.outputs.audit-report-1}`

- **lax**: Count CRITICAL only
- **normal**: Count CRITICAL + HIGH
- **strict**: Count CRITICAL + HIGH + MEDIUM
- **ocd**: Count all levels (CRITICAL, HIGH, MEDIUM, LOW)

**Below-threshold findings**: Report but don't block success

- **lax**: HIGH/MEDIUM/LOW reported, not counted
- **normal**: MEDIUM/LOW reported, not counted
- **strict**: LOW reported, not counted
- **ocd**: All findings counted

**Decision**:

- If threshold-level findings > 0: Proceed to step 3
- If threshold-level findings = 0: Skip to step 6 (Success)

**Depends on**: Step 1 completion

**Notes**:

- Fix scope determined by mode level
- Below-threshold findings remain visible in audit reports
- Enables progressive quality improvement

### 3. Apply Fixes (Sequential, Conditional)

Apply validated fixes from the audit report based on mode level.

**Agent**: `wow__rules-fixer`

- **Args**: `report: {step1.outputs.audit-report-1}, approved: all, mode: {input.mode}, EXECUTION_SCOPE: repo-rules`
- **Output**: `{fixes-applied}` - Fix report with same UUID chain as source audit
- **Condition**: Threshold-level findings exist from step 2
- **Depends on**: Step 2 completion

**Success criteria**: Fixer successfully applies all threshold-level fixes without errors.

**On failure**: Log errors, proceed to step 4 for verification.

**Notes**:

- Fixer re-validates findings before applying (prevents false positives)
- **Fix scope based on mode**:
  - **lax**: Fix CRITICAL only (skip HIGH/MEDIUM/LOW)
  - **normal**: Fix CRITICAL + HIGH (skip MEDIUM/LOW)
  - **strict**: Fix CRITICAL + HIGH + MEDIUM (skip LOW)
  - **ocd**: Fix all levels (CRITICAL, HIGH, MEDIUM, LOW)
- Below-threshold findings remain untouched

### 4. Re-validate (Sequential)

Run checker again to verify fixes resolved issues and no new issues introduced.

**Agent**: `wow__rules-checker`

- **Args**: `scope: all`
- **Output**: `{audit-report-N}` - Verification audit report
- **Depends on**: Step 3 completion

**Success criteria**: Checker completes validation.

**On failure**: Terminate workflow with status `fail`.

### 5. Iteration Control (Sequential)

Determine whether to continue fixing or terminate.

**Logic**:

- Count findings based on mode level in {step4.outputs.audit-report-N} (same as Step 2):
  - **lax**: Count CRITICAL only
  - **normal**: Count CRITICAL + HIGH
  - **strict**: Count CRITICAL + HIGH + MEDIUM
  - **ocd**: Count all levels
- If threshold-level findings = 0 AND iterations >= min-iterations (or min not provided): Proceed to step 6 (Success)
- If threshold-level findings = 0 AND iterations < min-iterations: Loop back to step 3 (need more iterations)
- If threshold-level findings > 0 AND max-iterations provided AND iterations >= max-iterations: Proceed to step 6 (Partial)
- If threshold-level findings > 0 AND (max-iterations not provided OR iterations < max-iterations): Loop back to step 3

**Below-threshold findings**: Continue to be reported in audit but don't affect iteration logic

**Depends on**: Step 4 completion

**Notes**:

- **Default behavior**: Runs indefinitely until zero threshold-level findings (no max-iterations limit)
- **Optional min-iterations**: Prevents premature termination before sufficient iterations
- **Optional max-iterations**: Prevents infinite loops when explicitly provided
- Each iteration uses the latest audit report
- Tracks iteration count for observability

### 6. Finalization (Sequential)

Report final status and summary.

**Output**: `{final-status}`, `{iterations-completed}`, `{final-report}`

**Status determination**:

- **Success** (`pass`): Zero findings after validation
- **Partial** (`partial`): Findings remain after max-iterations
- **Failure** (`fail`): Technical errors during check or fix

**Depends on**: Reaching this step from step 2, 4, or 5

## Termination Criteria

**Success** (`pass`):

- **lax**: Zero CRITICAL findings (HIGH/MEDIUM/LOW may exist)
- **normal**: Zero CRITICAL/HIGH findings (MEDIUM/LOW may exist)
- **strict**: Zero CRITICAL/HIGH/MEDIUM findings (LOW may exist)
- **ocd**: Zero findings at all levels

**Partial** (`partial`):

- Threshold-level findings remain after max-iterations safety limit

**Failure** (`fail`):

- Technical errors during check or fix

**Note**: Below-threshold findings are reported in final audit but don't prevent success status.

## Example Usage

### Standard Manual Invocation (Normal Strictness)

```
User: "Run repository rules quality gate workflow in normal mode"
```

The AI will execute the workflow directly:

- Validate repository consistency (checker logic)
- Apply fixes for CRITICAL/HIGH findings (fixer logic)
- Iterate until zero CRITICAL/HIGH findings achieved
- Report MEDIUM/LOW findings without fixing them

### Pre-Release Validation (Strict Mode)

```
User: "Run repository rules quality gate workflow in strict mode"
```

The AI will execute with stricter criteria:

- Fix CRITICAL/HIGH/MEDIUM findings
- Report LOW findings without fixing them
- Iterate until zero CRITICAL/HIGH/MEDIUM findings achieved

### Comprehensive Audit (OCD Mode)

```
User: "Run repository rules quality gate workflow in ocd mode"
```

The AI will execute with zero-tolerance criteria:

- Fix ALL findings (CRITICAL, HIGH, MEDIUM, LOW)
- Iterate until zero findings at all levels
- Equivalent to pre-mode parameter behavior

### With Iteration Bounds

```
User: "Run repository rules quality gate workflow in normal mode with min-iterations=2 and max-iterations=10"
```

The AI will execute with iteration controls:

- Require at least 2 check-fix cycles
- Cap at maximum 10 iterations to prevent infinite loops
- Report final status (pass/partial) after completion

## Iteration Example

Typical execution flow:

```
Iteration 1:
  Check → 15 findings → Fix → Re-check → 8 findings

Iteration 2:
  Check (reuse) → 8 findings → Fix → Re-check → 2 findings

Iteration 3:
  Check (reuse) → 2 findings → Fix → Re-check → 0 findings

Result: SUCCESS (3 iterations)
```

## Safety Features

**Infinite Loop Prevention**:

- Optional max-iterations parameter (no default - runs until zero findings)
- When provided, workflow terminates with `partial` if limit reached
- Tracks iteration count for monitoring
- Use max-iterations when fix convergence is uncertain

**False Positive Protection**:

- Fixer re-validates each finding before applying
- Skips FALSE_POSITIVE findings automatically
- Progressive writing ensures audit history survives

**Error Recovery**:

- Continues to verification even if some fixes fail
- Reports which fixes succeeded/failed
- Generates final report regardless of status

## Related Workflows

This workflow can be composed with:

- Deployment workflows (validate before deploy)
- Release workflows (audit before version bump)
- Content creation workflows (validate after bulk changes)

## Success Metrics

Track across executions:

- **Average iterations to completion**: How many cycles typically needed
- **Success rate**: Percentage reaching zero findings
- **Common finding categories**: What issues appear most often
- **Fix success rate**: Percentage of fixes applied without errors

## Notes

- **Fully automated**: No human checkpoints, runs to completion
- **Idempotent**: Safe to run multiple times, won't break working state
- **Conservative**: Fixer skips uncertain changes (preserves correctness)
- **Observable**: Generates audit reports for every iteration
- **Bounded**: Max-iterations prevents runaway execution

**Concurrency**: Currently validates and fixes sequentially. The `max-concurrency` parameter is reserved for future enhancements where multiple validation dimensions (principles, conventions, development, agents source in governance/agents/, CLAUDE.md) could run concurrently.

**Note**: "agents" in this context refers to agent SOURCE definitions in `governance/agents/`, NOT generated directories (`.claude/agents/` and `.opencode/agent/`).

This workflow ensures repository consistency through iterative validation and fixing, making it ideal for maintenance and quality assurance.

## Principles Respected

- ✅ **Explicit Over Implicit**: All steps, conditions, and termination criteria are explicit
- ✅ **Automation Over Manual**: Fully automated validation and fixing without human intervention
- ✅ **Simplicity Over Complexity**: Clear linear flow with loop control
- ✅ **Accessibility First**: Generates human-readable audit reports
- ✅ **Progressive Disclosure**: Can run with different iteration limits
- ✅ **No Time Estimates**: Focus on quality outcomes, not duration
